ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

        MRV Communications, Inc. creates, acquires, finances and operates
companies, and through them, designs, develops, manufactures and markets
products, which enable high-speed broadband communications. MRV concentrates on
companies and products devoted to optical components and Internet infrastructure
systems. MRV has leveraged its early experience in fiber optic technology into a
number of focused operating units specializing in advanced fiber optic
components, switching, routing, transaction management and wireless optical
transmission systems which it has created, financed or acquired.

        MRV's principal operating units that constituted wholly or majority
owned subsidiaries or divisions at December 31, 2001 were:

    -   LUMINENT, INC. Luminent designs, manufactures and sells a comprehensive
        line of singlemode active and passive fiber optic components for
        high-capacity data transmission in the metropolitan and access markets.
        Leading network equipment manufacturers rely on Luminent to provide
        technical depth, responsive customer service and volume manufacturing to
        meet the increasing requirements for transmission capacity and speed
        between nationwide telecommunications networks and end users.

        In November 2000, Luminent completed an initial public offering of its
        common stock. While we originally planned to spin-off to our
        stockholders the remaining Luminent common stock that we owned, in
        September 2001 we decided not to make that distribution and instead to
        merge Luminent into one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, thereby
        eliminating public ownership of Luminent's common stock. In that merger,
        which was completed on December 28, 2001, we issued 0.43 shares of our
        common stock in exchange for each outstanding share of Luminent common
        stock that we did not own prior to the merger, or an aggregate of
        approximately 5,160,000 of our shares, and assumed Luminent's
        outstanding stock options adjusted for the exchange ratio.

    -   OPTICAL ACCESS, INC. Optical Access designs, manufactures and markets
        optical wireless products that enable the delivery of high-speed
        communications traffic to the portion of the communications network
        commonly known as the last mile, which extends from the end user to the
        service provider's central office. Optical Access' solutions to the
        last-mile bottleneck bypass the incumbent carrier's copper access
        network with a comprehensive, integrated access solution, using optical
        wireless technology. The building blocks of Optical Access' solution
        include the TereScope(TM), for optical wireless links, and the
        OptiSwitch(TM), for switching, provisioning and mesh enabling. At
        December 31, 2001, MRV owned all of the outstanding capital stock of
        Optical Access. On October 6, 2000, Optical Access filed a registration
        statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the initial
        public offering of its common stock. Market conditions prevented this
        offering from being completed and it was withdrawn in November 2001.

    -   CESCOMM, INC. CEScomm (formerly Creative Electronic Systems SA or CES)
        is developing and providing equipment to manufacturers of cellular
        network infrastructure equipment and mobile operators and service
        providers for the third generation of wireless solutions commonly known
        as 3G. 3G is the generic term used for the next generation of mobile
        communications systems. These new systems provide enhanced services to
        those available today i.e., voice, text and data. CEScomm specializes in
        products that provide the real-time conversion of radio signals
        generated




                                       3
<PAGE>

        by Internet ready mobile devices into asynchronous transfer mode, or
        ATM, traffic streams. At December 31, 2001, MRV owned all of the
        outstanding capital stock of CEScomm.

    O   ITOUCH COMMUNICATIONS, INC. iTouch Communications, Inc. provides
        next-generation Internet infrastructure solutions that enable service
        providers and carriers to deliver and monitor, on a real-time basis,
        high-speed Internet services. iTouch's products combine transaction
        management with Internet protocol, or IP, routing and wide-area network,
        or WAN, technologies, which allow for faster development of feature rich
        high-speed data acquisition and management systems. At December 31,
        2001, MRV owned all of the outstanding capital stock of iTouch.

    O   NBASE-XYPLEX. NBase-Xyplex, a division of MRV, provides products and
        services, such as the Fiber Driver, to enhance network infrastructures
        for city carriers, service providers, cable operators and campus and
        enterprise networks. Its products and technologies have been utilized in
        metropolitan area fiber-based networks, enabling smart access to the
        WAN, as well as in local area network, or LAN, switching, building
        enterprise/corporate data networks.

        MRV's principal development stage companies, which MRV founded or has
invested in as of December 31, 2001 were:

    -   CHARLOTTE'S NETWORKS, INC. Charlotte's Networks is a start-up company
        that is developing a core router for large service providers and
        carriers. The Aranea core router is Charlotte's first product. The
        Aranea router is capable of carrying both IP packets and time-division
        multiplexing, or TDM, voice traffic and enables the current WAN to grow
        in high orders of magnitude both in processing power and rate of
        transmission. In addition, the router provides multi-services required
        by telecommunication companies for efficient and flexible transmission
        of voice over data networks. At December 31, 2001, MRV owned
        approximately 54% of the outstanding capital stock of Charlotte's
        Networks on a fully diluted basis.

    -   ZUMA NETWORKS, INC. Zuma Networks is a startup company that is
        developing a next generation Gigabit Ethernet switch router platform. At
        December 31, 2001, MRV owned all of the outstanding capital stock of
        Zuma Networks.

    -   OPTICAL CROSSING INC. Optical Crossing designs, develops and
        manufactures advanced fiber optic communication components and systems
        for the telecommunications industry. At December 31, 2001, MRV owned
        approximately 60% of the outstanding capital stock of Optical Crossing
        on a fully diluted basis.

    -   REDC OPTICAL NETWORKS, INC. RedC has developed a complete line of
        optical modules used for operating, monitoring and protecting optical
        networks including: optical amplifiers, add/drop modules, protection and
        restoration modules and dense wave division multiplexing, or DWDM,
        monitoring. At December 31, 2001, MRV owned approximately 35% of the
        outstanding capital stock of RedC on a fully diluted basis.

    -   HYPERCHANNEL LTD. Hyperchannel, which does business under its trademark
        Hyporium is an independent Internet market maker for the information
        technology, or IT, industry, enabling IT vendors, distributors and
        resellers to trade online. Hyporium offers an alternative route to
        market through an online trading hub and reseller web storefronts. At
        December 31, 2001, MRV owned approximately 40% of the outstanding
        capital stock of Hyperchannel on a fully diluted basis.




                                       4
<PAGE>

BACKGROUND

        MRV was organized in July 1988 as MRV Technologies, Inc., a California
corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1992, at which time it
changed its name to MRV Communications, Inc. MRV's initial focus was in the
design, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor laser diodes, light emitting
diodes, or LEDs, and fiber optic transmitting and receiving modules for the
transmission of large amounts of information at high speeds over long distances
and LAN switching products for the computer networking industry. From 1995 to
1998, MRV made several acquisitions involving companies making networking
equipment, including:

    -   in 1995, certain of the assets and the distribution businesses of Galcom
        Networking, Ltd. and Ace 400 Communications Ltd, both network equipment
        companies located in Israel, which provided MRV with experienced
        personnel and technology for the networking markets;

    -   in 1996, certain of the liabilities and assets of Fibronics Ltd. and its
        subsidiaries, including its technology in progress and existing
        technology, its marketing channels, its GigaHub family of computer
        networking products and other rights, relating to Fibronics' computer
        networking and telecommunications businesses in Germany, the United
        States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Israel, enabling MRV to
        enhance the development of Fast Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet functions,
        to offer a broader range of networking products and to benefit from
        combined distribution channels and sales in both the United States and
        Europe and greater product development capability; and

    -   in 1998 of the outstanding capital stock of the entity owning the
        outstanding capital stock of Xyplex, Inc., a leading provider of access
        solutions between enterprise networks and wide area network and/or
        Internet service providers, or ISPs. This acquisition enabled MRV to
        expand its product lines with products that had WAN and remote access
        capabilities, permitting MRV to offer these solutions not only to MRV's
        own existing base of customers, but also to the customer base added by
        Xyplex. The acquisition of Xyplex (now known as iTouch Communications)
        also increased MRV's sales force, distribution channels and customer
        support and service capabilities.

        During 2000, MRV completed several strategic acquisitions. These
acquisitions were made to expand MRV's product offerings, enhance its
technological experience and expand MRV's manufacturing capabilities. The table
below summarizes MRV's more notable acquisitions in that year.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Form of Consideration and
         Acquired Company         Date of Acquisition  Total Consideration  Other Notes to Acquisition
         ----------------         -------------------  -------------------  --------------------------
<S>                               <C>                  <C>                  <C>
Fiber Optic Communications, Inc.  April 24, 2000       $309.7 million       $48.6 million in cash and 5.4 million
                                                                            shares of common stock and options
                                                                            issued; approximately 97% of capital
                                                                            stock assumed; goodwill and other
                                                                            intangibles recorded of $261.5 million;
                                                                            deferred stock compensation recorded of
                                                                            $14.1 million

 Jolt Limited                      May 1, 2000         $57.7 million        1.9 million shares of common stock and
                                                                            options issued; 100% of capital stock
                                                                            assumed; goodwill and other intangibles
                                                                            recorded of $33.7 million; deferred
                                                                            stock compensation recorded of $25.0
                                                                            million
</TABLE>




                                       5
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Form of Consideration and
         Acquired Company         Date of Acquisition  Total Consideration  Other Notes to Acquisition
         ----------------         -------------------  -------------------  --------------------------
<S>                               <C>                  <C>                  <C>
                                  July 12, 2000        $36.1 million        1.2 million shares of common stock and
Quantum Optech Inc.                                                         options issued; 100% of capital stock
                                                                            assumed; goodwill and other intangibles
                                                                            recorded of $27.8 million; deferred
                                                                            stock compensation recorded of $2.7
                                                                            million

AstroTerra Corporation            July 12, 2000        $160.3 million       2.4 million shares of common stock and
                                                                            options issued; 100% of capital stock
                                                                            assumed; goodwill and other intangibles
                                                                            recorded of $108.4 million; deferred
                                                                            stock compensation recorded of $50.0
                                                                            million

Optronics International Corp.     July 21, 2000        $123.9 million       4.2 million shares of common stock and
                                                                            options issued; approximately 99% of
                                                                            capital stock assumed; goodwill and
                                                                            other intangibles recorded of $99.4
                                                                            million; deferred stock compensation
                                                                            recorded of $13.4 million
</TABLE>

        Each of these acquisitions was accounted for using the purchase method
and therefore, the results of operations of the acquired businesses have been
included in MRV's consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of
acquisition.

        Fiber Optic Communications is a Taiwanese manufacturer of passive fiber
optic components for wavelength division multiplexing and has facilities in both
Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. Quantum Optech is a Taiwanese
manufacturer of passive fiber optic components specializing in developing and
manufacturing optical thin film coating and filters for dense wavelength
division multiplexing. Optronics International is a Taiwanese manufacturer of
active fiber optic components focused on developing and manufacturing high
temperature semiconductor lasers, transceivers and detectors for optical
networks. Fiber Optic Communications, Quantum Optech and Optronics International
were acquired and contributed to Luminent in September 2000, prior to Luminent's
initial public offering of its common stock.

        AstroTerra develops and manufactures free-space optical wireless
communication systems to connect data and telecommunications networks. Jolt
develops and manufactures multi-port wireless optics communications equipment.
These acquisitions provided strategic components and technology for Optical
Access' wireless optical solution. AstroTerra and Jolt were acquired and
contributed to MRV's subsidiary, Optical Access, which focuses on optical
wireless products that deliver high-speed communications traffic to the
so-called last mile portion of the communications network.

RISK FACTORS

        From time to time we may make written or oral forward-looking
statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, and in reports
to stockholders. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe
harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such
disclosures. In connection with this "safe harbor" we are hereby identifying
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Company. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the following
cautionary statements:




                                       6
<PAGE>

WE INCURRED A NET LOSS IN THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND 2001, PRIMARILY
AS A RESULT OF THE AMORTIZATION OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES AND DEFERRED
COMPENSATION CHARGES FROM RECENT ACQUISITIONS. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR
NET LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE.

        We reported a net loss of $153.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2000 and $326.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A major
contributing factor to the net losses was the amortization of goodwill and
intangibles and deferred stock compensation related to our acquisitions of Fiber
Optic Communications, Jolt, Quantum Optech, AstroTerra and Optronics and our
employment arrangements with Luminent's former President and Luminent's Chief
Financial Officer. We will continue to record deferred stock compensation
relating to these acquisitions and the employment arrangements with these
executives going forward. Effective January 1, 2002, with the adoption of SFAS
142 we will stop amortization of goodwill however we may be required to record
goodwill impairment charges if the fair value of the assets acquired is less
than their carrying value (see Recently Issued Accounting Standards). As a
consequence of deferred stock compensation charges and potential impairment
charges, we do not expect to report net income in the foreseeable future.

OUR BUSINESS HAS BEEN ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY THE WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN AND
RELATED UNCERTAINTIES

        Weaker economic conditions worldwide, particularly in the U.S. and
Europe, have contributed to the current technology industry slowdown and
impacted our business resulting in:

    -   reduced demand for our products, particularly Luminent's fiber optic
        components;

    -   increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories;

    -   increased price competition for our products;

    -   excess manufacturing capacity under current market conditions; and

    -   higher overhead costs, as a percentage of revenues.

        These unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending in
the telecommunications industry detrimentally affected sales to service
providers, network equipment companies, e-commerce and Internet businesses, and
the manufacturing industry in the United States, during 2001, appear to continue
to affect these industries in the first quarter of 2002 and may affect them for
the balance of 2002 and thereafter. Announcements by industry participants and
observers indicate there is a slowdown in industry spending and participants are
seeking to reduce existing inventories and we are experiencing these reductions
in our business. As a result of these factors, we recorded during the year ended
December 31, 2001 consolidated charges from our subsidiary, Luminent, which
include the write-off of inventory, purchase commitments, asset impairment,
workforce reduction, restructuring costs and other unusual items. The aggregate
charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2001 were $49.5 million.
These charges are the result of the lower demand for Luminent's products and
pricing pressures stemming from the continuing downturn in the communications
equipment industry generally and the optical components sector in particular.

        Additionally, these economic conditions are making it very difficult for
MRV and our other companies, our customers and our vendors to forecast and plan
future business activities. This level of uncertainty severely challenges our
ability to operate profitably or to grow our businesses. In particular, it is
difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and
efficient operations, and effectively manage manufacturing and supply chain
relationships. We lost a key member of our management team in the terrorists
attacks on the World Trade Center of September 11, 2001 and thus the




                                       7
<PAGE>
 attacks have already had adverse consequences on our business. However, we do
not know how the consequences of these attacks will additionally affect our
business. It is possible that a decrease in business and consumer confidence in
the economy and the stability of financial markets may lead to delays or
reductions in capital expenditures by our customers and potential customers.
Concerns over accounting practices of service providers and faltering growth
prospects among equipment manufactures could delay the economic recovery in the
telecommunications industry beyond 2002. In addition, further disruptions of the
air transport system in the United States and abroad may negatively impact our
ability to deliver products to customers, visit potential customers, to provide
support and service to our existing customers and to obtain components in a
timely fashion. If the economic or market conditions continue or further
deteriorate, or if the economic downturn is exacerbated as a result of
political, economic or military conditions associated with current domestic and
world events, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations
could be further impaired.

OUR MARKETS ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, AND TO COMPETE
EFFECTIVELY, WE MUST CONTINUALLY INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE MARKET
ACCEPTANCE.

        The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological
change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and
evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as
competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission
capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the
successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced
products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer
requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our
customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past
experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the
future. Therefore, to the extent customers defer or cancel orders in the
expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or
introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating
results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core
technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license
these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result
from numerous factors, including:

    -   changing product specifications and customer requirements;

    -   difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel;

    -   difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming
        resource limitations;

    -   difficulties with contract manufacturers;

    -   changing market or competitive product requirements; and

    -   unanticipated engineering complexities.

        The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex
and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled
engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of
technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver
products to customers that are highly reliable, operate with its existing
equipment, lower the customer's costs of acquisition, installation and
maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support
new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further,
we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that
we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors,
technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to
technological changes would significantly harm our business.




                                       8
<PAGE>

DEFECTS IN OUR PRODUCTS RESULTING FROM THEIR COMPLEXITY OR OTHERWISE COULD HURT
OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.

        Complex products, such as those our companies and we offer, may contain
undetected software or hardware errors when we first introduce them or when we
release new versions. The occurrence of these errors in the future, and our
inability to correct these errors quickly or at all, could result in the delay
or loss of market acceptance of our products. It could also result in material
warranty expense, diversion of engineering and other resources from our product
development efforts and the loss of credibility with, and legal actions by, our
customers, system integrators and end users. For instance, during late 2000, we
were informed that certain Luminent transceivers sold to Cisco were experiencing
field failures. Through discussions with Cisco through September 2001,
Luminent's management agreed to replace the failed units, which we believe
resolves this issue. We expect the ultimate replacement of these failed
transceivers will cost approximately $3.6 million which we fully reserved in
2001. Any of these or other eventualities resulting from defects in our products
could cause our sales to decline and have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating results and financial condition.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER.

        Our operating results for a particular quarter are extremely difficult
to predict. Our revenue and operating results could fluctuate substantially from
quarter to quarter and from year to year. This could result from any one or a
combination of factors such as

    -   the cancellation or postponement of orders,

    -   the timing and amount of significant orders from our largest customers,

    -   our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements
        and new products,

    -   the mix of products we sell,

    -   software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring
        replacements or increased warranty reserves,

    -   adverse effects to our financial statements resulting from, or
        necessitated by, past and future acquisitions or deferred compensation
        charges,

    -   new product introductions by our competitors,

    -   pricing actions by our competitors or us,

    -   the timing of delivery and availability of components from suppliers,

    -   changes in material costs, and

    -   general economic conditions.

        Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter
are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain
and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their
forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control
inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously
ordered from us. Our




                                       9
<PAGE>

expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations
of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our
operating results could be materially adversely affected.

        Our success is dependent, in part, on the overall growth rate of the
fiber optic components and networking industry. We can give no assurance that
the Internet or the industries that serve it will continue to grow or that we
will achieve higher growth rates. Our business, operating results or financial
condition may be adversely affected by any decreases in industry growth rates.
In addition, we can give no assurance that our results in any particular period
will fall within the ranges for growth forecast by market researchers.

        Because of these and other factors, you should not rely on
quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of
our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of
operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and
investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of
our common stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or
customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors
could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline.

THE LONG SALES CYCLES FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY CAUSE REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS
TO VARY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER, WHICH COULD CAUSE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK
PRICE.

        The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict because of the length
and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do
not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all
significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered
probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and
strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort
in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing
process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results
in a lengthy initial sales cycle of, depending on the products, many months or
more. In addition, some of our customers require that our products be subjected
to lifetime and reliability testing, which also can take months or more. While
our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with
us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development
expenses to customize our products to the customer's needs. We may also expend
significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long
lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this
evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. Even
after acceptance of orders, our customers often change the scheduled delivery
dates of their orders. Because of the evolving nature of the optical networking
and network infrastructure markets, we cannot predict the length of these sales,
development or delivery cycles. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause
our net sales and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from
quarter-to-quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price.

THE PRICES OF OUR SHARES MAY CONTINUE TO BE HIGHLY VOLATILE.

        Historically, the market price of our shares has been extremely
volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be
highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors such as

    -   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results,

    -   announcements of technological innovations or new product introductions
        by us or our competitors,

    -   changes of estimates of our future operating results by securities
        analysts,

    -   developments with respect to patents, copyrights or proprietary rights,
        and




                                       10
<PAGE>

    -   general market conditions and other factors.

        In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common
stocks of technology companies in particular, and that have been unrelated to
the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general
economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market
price of our common stock in the future. Similarly, the failure by our
competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their
analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price
to decline. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our
stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of
whom have been granted stock options.

OUR STOCK PRICE MIGHT SUFFER AS A CONSEQUENCE OF OUR INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES.

        We have created several start-up companies and formed independent
business units in the optical technology and Internet infrastructure areas. We
account for these investments in affiliates according to the equity or cost
methods as required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States. The market value of these investments may vary materially from the
amounts shown as a result of business events specific to these entities or their
competitors or market conditions. Actual or perceived changes in the market
value of these investments could have a material impact on our share price and
in addition could contribute significantly to volatility of our share price.

OUR BUSINESS IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE AND THE EVIDENT TREND OF CONSOLIDATIONS IN
OUR INDUSTRY COULD MAKE IT MORE SO.

        The markets for fiber optic components and networking products are
intensely competitive and subject to frequent product introductions with
improved price/performance characteristics, rapid technological change and the
continual emergence of new industry standards. We compete and will compete with
numerous types of companies including companies that have been established for
many years and have considerably greater financial, marketing, technical, human
and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger installed
customer base, than we do. This may give these competitors certain advantages,
including the ability to negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components
than those available to us. In addition, many of our large competitors offer
customers broader product lines, which provide more comprehensive solutions than
our current offerings. We expect that other companies will also enter markets in
which we compete. Increased competition could result in significant price
competition, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. We can give no
assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future
competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not materially and
adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In
particular, we expect that prices on many of our products will continue to
decrease in the future and that the pace and magnitude of these price decreases
may have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

        There has been a trend toward industry consolidation for several years.
We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies
attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. We
believe that industry consolidation may provide stronger competitors that are
better able to compete. This could have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating results and financial condition.

WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY MANAGING OUR BUSINESSES.

        Our growth in recent years, both internally and through the acquisitions
we have made has placed a significant strain on our financial and management
personnel and information systems and controls. As




                                       11
<PAGE>

a consequence, we must continually implement new and enhance existing financial
and management information systems and controls and must add and train personnel
to operate these systems effectively. Our delay or failure to implement new and
enhance existing systems and controls as needed could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our
intention to continue to pursue a growth strategy can be expected to place even
greater pressure on our existing personnel and to compound the need for
increased personnel, expanded information systems, and additional financial and
administrative control procedures. We can give no assurance that we will be able
to successfully manage operations if they continue to expand.

        WE FACE RISKS FROM OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS.

        International sales have become an increasingly important segment of our
operations. The following table sets forth the percentage of our total net
revenues from sales to customers in foreign countries for the periods indicated
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  Year ended December 31,
                                               ----------------------------
                                                1999       2000       2001
                                               ------     ------     ------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>        <C>
Percent of total revenue from foreign sales      58%        63%        67%
</TABLE>

        We have companies and offices in, and conduct a significant portion of
our operations in and from, Israel. We are, therefore, directly influenced by
the political and economic conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities
involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and
its trading partners or a substantial downturn in the economic or financial
condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In
addition, the recent acquisition of operations in Taiwan and People's Republic
of China has increased both the administrative complications we must manage and
our exposure to political, economic and other conditions affecting Taiwan and
People's Republic of China. Luminent has a large manufacturing facility in the
People's Republic of China in which it manufactures passive fiber optic
components and both Luminent and we make sales of our products in the People's
Republic of China. Our total sales in the People's Republic of China amounted to
approximately $2.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2000 and $10.4
million during the year ended December 31, 2001. Currently there is significant
political tension between Taiwan and People's Republic of China, which could
lead to hostilities. Risks we face due to international sales and the use of
overseas manufacturing include:

    -   greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer
        collection periods;

    -   the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States;

    -   unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;

    -   seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world,
        such as during the summer months in Europe or in the winter months in
        Asia when the Chinese New Year is celebrated;

    -   certification requirements;

    -   potentially adverse tax consequences;

    -   unanticipated cost increases;

    -   unavailability or late delivery of equipment;




                                       12
<PAGE>

    -   trade restrictions;

    -   limited protection of intellectual property rights;

    -   unforeseen environmental or engineering problems; and

    -   personnel recruitment delays.

        The majority of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and
to date our business has not been significantly affected by currency
fluctuations or inflation. However, as we conduct business in several different
countries, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to
become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction
in sales in that country. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency
exchange rates in these countries could increase our expenses. The Single
European Currency (Euro) was introduced on January 1, 1999 with complete
transition to this new currency required by January 2002. We have made and
expect to continue to make changes to our internal systems in order to
accommodate doing business in the Euro. Any delays in our ability to be
Euro-compliant could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or
financial condition. Due to numerous uncertainties, we cannot reasonably
estimate at this time the effects a common currency will have on pricing within
the European Union and the resulting impact, if any, on our financial condition
or results of operations.

        To date, we have not hedged against currency exchange risks. In the
future, we may engage in foreign currency denominated sales or pay material
amounts of expenses in foreign currencies and, in that event, may experience
gains and losses due to currency fluctuations. Our operating results could be
adversely affected by currency fluctuations or as a result of inflation in
particular countries where material expenses are incurred.

WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS FOR NEEDED COMPONENTS AND
THEREFORE COULD FACE DELAYS HARMING OUR SALES.

        We outsource the board-level assembly, test and quality control of
material, components, subassemblies and systems relating to our networking
products to third-party contract manufacturers. Though there are a large number
of contract manufacturers that we can use for outsourcing, we have elected to
use a limited number of vendors for a significant portion of our board assembly
requirements in order to foster consistency in quality of the products and to
achieve economies of scale. These independent third-party manufacturers also
provide the same services to other companies. Risks associated with the use of
independent manufacturers include unavailability of or delays in obtaining
adequate supplies of products and reduced control of manufacturing quality and
production costs. If our contract manufacturers failed to deliver needed
components timely, we could face difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of
products from other sources in the near term. We can give no assurance that our
third party manufacturers will provide us with adequate supplies of quality
products on a timely basis, or at all. While we could outsource with other
vendors, a change in vendors may require significant lead-time and may result in
shipment delays and expenses. Our inability to obtain these products on a timely
basis, the loss of a vendor or a change in the terms and conditions of the
outsourcing would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results and financial condition.

WE MAY LOSE SALES IF SUPPLIERS OF OTHER CRITICAL COMPONENTS FAIL TO MEET OUR
NEEDS.

        Our companies currently purchase several key components used in the
manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We depend on these
sources to meet our needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products
supplied to us over which we have limited control. We have




                                       13
<PAGE>

encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect
to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products
due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other
components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We
have no long-term or short-term contracts for any of our components. As a
result, a supplier can discontinue supplying components to us without penalty.
If a supplier discontinued supplying a component, our business may be harmed by
the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays.

OUR INABILITY TO ACHIEVE ADEQUATE PRODUCTION YIELDS FOR CERTAIN COMPONENTS WE
MANUFACTURE INTERNALLY COULD RESULT IN A LOSS OF SALES AND CUSTOMERS.

        We rely heavily on our own production capability for critical
semiconductor lasers and light emitting diodes used in our products. Because we
manufacture these and other key components at our own facilities and these
components are not readily available from other sources, any interruption of our
manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
Furthermore, we have a limited number of employees dedicated to the operation
and maintenance of our wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of any of whom
could result in our inability to effectively operate and service this equipment.
Wafer fabrication is sensitive to many factors, including variations and
impurities in the raw materials, the fabrication process, performance of the
manufacturing equipment, defects in the masks used to print circuits on the
wafer and the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment. We can
give no assurance that we will be able to maintain acceptable production yields
and avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate production yields are
not achieved, resulting in product shipment delays, our business, operating
results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

FUTURE HARM COULD RESULT FROM ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS.

        An important element of our strategy is to review acquisition prospects
that would complement our existing companies and products, augment our market
coverage and distribution ability or enhance our technological capabilities.
Future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations because of the following:

    -   possible charges to operations for purchased technology and
        restructuring similar to those incurred in connection with our
        acquisition of Xyplex in 1998;

    -   potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities;

    -   incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities;

    -   incurrence of amortization expenses and impairment charges related to
        goodwill and other intangible assets and deferred compensation charges
        similar to those arising with the acquisitions of Fiber Optic
        Communications, Optronics, Quantum Optech, Jolt and AstroTerra in 2000
        (see Recently Issued Accounting Standards);

    -   difficulties assimilating the acquired operations, technologies and
        products;

    -   diversion of management's attention to other business concerns;

    -   risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior
        experience;

    -   potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations; and

    -   difficulties in honoring commitments made to customers by management of
        the acquired entity prior to the acquisition.




                                       14
<PAGE>

    -   We can give no assurance as to whether we can successfully integrate the
        companies, products, technologies or personnel of any business that we
        might acquire in the future.

IF WE FAIL TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE
TO COMPETE.

        We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on
disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual
property rights. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will
be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual
property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other
parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design
around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps
we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property,
particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary
rights as fully as in the United States. Any of this kind of litigation,
regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse
determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our
business.

WE ARE CURRENTLY, AND COULD IN THE FUTURE BECOME, SUBJECT TO LITIGATION
REGARDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD BE COSTLY AND SUBJECT US TO
SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY.

        From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert
patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that
are important to us. We expect we will increasingly be subject to license offers
and infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our market
grows and the functioning of products overlaps. In this regard:

    -   In March 1999, we received a written notice from Lemelson Foundation
        Partnership in which Lemelson claimed to have patent rights in our
        vision and automatic identification operations, which are widely used in
        the manufacture of electronic assemblies.

    -   In April 1999, we received a written notice from Rockwell Automation
        Technologies Corporation in which Rockwell claimed to have patent rights
        in certain technology related to our metal organic chemical vapor
        deposition, or MOCVD, processes and this claim has resulted in
        litigation, which Rockwell brought against us in March 2002 (see Item 3.
        Legal Proceedings").

    -   In October 1999, we received written notice from Lucent Technologies,
        Inc. in which Lucent claimed we have violated certain of Lucent's
        patents falling into the general category of communications technology,
        with a focus on networking functionality.

    -   In October 1999, we received a written notice from Ortel Corporation,
        which has since been acquired by Lucent, in which Ortel claimed to have
        patent rights in certain technology related to our photodiode module
        products. In January 2001, we were advised that Lucent had assigned
        certain of its rights and claims to Agere Systems, Inc., including the
        claim made on the Ortel patent. To date, we have not been contacted by
        Agere regarding this patent claim. In July 2000, we received written
        notice from Nortel Networks, which claimed we violated Nortel's patent
        relating to technology associated with local area networks.

    -   In May 2001, we received written notice from IBM, which claims that
        several of our optical components and Internet infrastructure products
        make use of inventions covered by certain patents claimed by IBM. We are
        evaluating the patents noted in the letters.

    Aggregate net sales potentially subject to the foregoing claims amounted to
    approximately 30% of our total sales during the year ended December 31, 2000
    and 28% of our total sales during the year ended December 31, 2001. Others'
    patents, including Lemelson's, Rockwell's, Lucent's, Agere's, Nortel's and
    IBM's, may be determined to be valid, or some of our products may ultimately
    be determined to infringe the Lemelson, Rockwell, Lucent, Agere, Nortel or
    IBM patents, or those of other companies.




                                       15
<PAGE>
        As was the case with Rockwell, Lemelson, Lucent, Agere, Nortel or IBM,
or other companies may pursue litigation with respect to these or other claims.
The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an
adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights
relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to
obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under
applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or
to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses
may not be available from third parties, including Lemelson, Rockwell, Lucent,
Ortel, Nortel or IBM, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In
addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can
require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail.
Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly
harm our business, operating results and financial condition.

IN THE FUTURE, WE MAY INITIATE CLAIMS OR LITIGATION AGAINST THIRD PARTIES FOR
INFRINGEMENT OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS TO PROTECT THESE RIGHTS OR TO DETERMINE
THE SCOPE AND VALIDITY OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OR THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF
COMPETITORS. THESE CLAIMS COULD RESULT IN COSTLY LITIGATION AND THE DIVERSION OF
OUR TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL.

        Necessary licenses of third-party technology may not be available to us
or may be very expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to
manufacture and sell our products. From time to time we may be required to
license technology from third parties to develop new products or product
enhancements. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available
to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain any
third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements
could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance
standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability
to manufacture and sell our products.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN MEMBERS OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT.

        We are substantially dependent upon Dr. Shlomo Margalit, our Chairman of
the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer, and Mr. Noam Lotan, our
President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of either of
these officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into
employment agreements with Dr. Margalit and Mr. Lotan and are the beneficiary of
key man life insurance policies in the amounts of $1.0 million each on their
lives. However, we can give no assurance that the proceeds from these policies
will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of the death of either of these
individuals, and the policies are not applicable in the event that either of
them becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to us.

OUR BUSINESS REQUIRES US TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.

        Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our
companies and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors
depends, and will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel. Competition for executives and qualified personnel in the
networking and fiber optics industries is intense, and we will be required to
compete for that personnel with companies having substantially greater financial
and other resources than we do. To attract executives, we have had to enter into
compensation arrangements, which have resulted in substantial deferred
compensation charges and adversely affected our results of operations. We may
enter into similar arrangements in the future to attract qualified executives If
we should be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business
could be materially adversely affected. We can give no assurance that we will be
able to attract and retain qualified personnel.




                                       16
<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS COULD LIMIT
OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OR SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL COSTS.

        We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the
use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our
manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and
training regulations as required by local, state and federal law. Any failure by
us to comply with present and future regulations could subject us to future
liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, these kinds of
regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require
us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply
with environmental regulations. We cannot assure you that these legal
requirements will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures
or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail
to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay
substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our
manufacturing processes or facilities.

IF WE FAIL TO ACCURATELY FORECAST COMPONENT AND MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR OUR
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES, WE COULD INCUR ADDITIONAL COSTS OR EXPERIENCE
MANUFACTURING DELAYS.

        We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to
determine our component requirements. It is very important that we accurately
predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain
the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials
that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier
requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand
for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some
suppliers may need six months or more lead-time. If we overestimate our
component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would
increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements,
we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and
delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would
negatively impact our net sales.

        Current softness in demand and pricing in the communications market have
necessitated a review of our inventory, facilities and headcount. As a result,
we and Luminent recorded in the year ended December 31, 2001 one-time charges to
write down inventory to realizable value and inventory purchase commitments of
approximately $35.4 million.

WE ARE AT RISK OF SECURITIES CLASS ACTION OR OTHER LITIGATION THAT COULD RESULT
IN SUBSTANTIAL COSTS AND DIVERT MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION AND RESOURCES.

        In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against
a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities.
Due to the volatility and potential volatility of our stock price or the
volatility of Luminent's stock price following its initial public offering, we
may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Additionally, while
Luminent and we informed investors that we were under no obligation to, and
might not, make the distribution to our stockholders of our Luminent common
stock and that we could and might eliminate public ownership of Luminent through
a short-form merger with us, our decisions to abandon our distribution of
Luminent's common stock to our stockholders or to eliminate public ownership of
Luminent's common stock through the merger of Luminent into one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries may result in securities or other litigation.
Securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs and divert
management's attention and resources.

DEPENDING ON OUR FUTURE ACTIVITIES OR AS A RESULT OF THE POSSIBLE SALE OF ONE OR
MORE OF OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES, WE COULD BE FORCED TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS
TO AVOID INVESTMENT COMPANY STATUS AND MAY SUFFER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES IF DEEMED
TO BE AN INVESTMENT COMPANY.

        In the past through 2000, we embarked upon a business strategy of
creating, acquiring and managing companies in the optical technology and
Internet infrastructure areas, with a view toward




                                       17
<PAGE>

creating equity growth by operating or investing in these companies and then
potentially spinning them off, taking them public or selling them or our
interest in them. If this strategy proved successful, we were concerned that we
might incur significant costs to avoid investment company status and would
suffer other adverse consequences if deemed to be an investment company under
the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Investment Company Act of 1940 requires
registration for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of
investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. A company may
be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a
value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding government
securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, unless an exemption or
safe harbor applies. Securities issued by companies other than majority-owned
subsidiaries are generally counted as investment securities for purposes of the
Investment Company Act. Investment companies are subject to registration under,
and compliance with, the Investment Company Act unless a particular exclusion or
safe harbor provision applies. If we were to be deemed an investment company, we
would become subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act. As a
consequence, we would be prohibited from engaging in business or issuing our
securities as we have in the past and might be subject to civil and criminal
penalties for noncompliance. In addition, certain of our contracts might be
voidable.

        As a result of the current economic slowdown in the communications
industry generally and the fiber optic components industry particularly, we have
abandoned plans to spin-off Luminent, one of our subsidiaries, and withdrawn the
initial public offering of Optical Access, another of our subsidiaries. The
economic slowdown and its consequences have caused us to reevaluate our strategy
and to focus currently on holding and operating our existing businesses. This
current focus makes it less likely that we would attain investment company
status. However, if economic and market conditions recover to the point at which
they existed prior to the fourth quarter of 2000, we may return to our prior
strategy which, depending on future events, might again subject us to the
potential risks associated with investment company status, including
registration as an investment company.

        Moreover, although our portfolio of investment securities currently
comprises substantially less than 40% of our total assets, fluctuations in the
value of these securities or of our other assets as a result of future economic
conditions or events, or, more likely, the sale of one or more of companies in
exchange for the securities of the purchaser, may cause this limit to be
exceeded. For example, while we have no plans to sell all or any portion of
Luminent to a third party after the merger, we are periodically contacted by
third parties regarding potential transactions and, depending on the proposal,
could complete a sale if we determine that it would be in our best interest and
those of our stockholders. In any case, where our investment securities
resulting from a sale of Luminent or another of our companies or otherwise were
in excess of the 40% limit unless an exclusion or safe harbor was available to
us, in that case, we would have to attempt to reduce our investment securities
as a percentage of our total assets. This reduction could be attempted in a
number of ways, including the disposition of investment securities and the
acquisition of non-investment security assets. If we were required to sell
investment securities, we may sell them sooner than we otherwise would. These
sales may be at depressed prices and we may never realize anticipated benefits
from, or may incur losses on, these investments. We may be unable to sell some
investments due to contractual or legal restrictions or the inability to locate
a suitable buyer. Moreover, we may incur tax liabilities when we sell assets. We
may also be unable to purchase additional investment securities that may be
important to our operating strategy. If we decide to acquire non-investment
security assets, we may not be able to identify and acquire suitable assets and
businesses or the terms on which we are able to acquire these assets may be
unfavorable. The mere existence of these issues could cause us to forego a
transaction, which might otherwise have been beneficial to us.

DELAWARE LAW AND OUR ABILITY TO ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER
EFFECTS THAT COULD PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL, WHICH MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE
TO DECLINE.

We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This
preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be
determined at the time of issuance by the board of




                                       18
<PAGE>

directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of
preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a
series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation,
conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock
is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially
adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore,
reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to
future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge
with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the
present management.

        We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a
business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years
after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested
stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed
under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay
or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market
price of our common stock to decline.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

        As e-commerce and the Internet continued to proliferate, business
enterprises became increasingly reliant on communications networks and software
applications as critical strategic assets. Communications networks are being
expanded to deliver new services and distribute mission critical computing
applications such as customer network management, transaction processing,
enterprise resource planning, large enterprise databases, and sophisticated
on-line connections with vendors, and the increased use of traditional
applications, such as e-mail and video conferencing, to suppliers, customers and
employees. Bandwidth intensive applications that contain voice, video and
graphics through intranets and extranets, and growth in business-to-business
e-commerce and other on-line transactions are encumbering the optical networking
and internet infrastructure environment. Due to the significant growth of
network users who increasingly rely on secure access for higher speed and
quality of communications networks, even small network delays can result in lost
revenue, decreased employee productivity and customer dissatisfaction. As a
result, businesses and network service providers realize the critical nature of
network and application performance and the requirement for optical networking
and fiber optic equipment that increases capacity through high speed and more
efficient transmission technologies.

        Optical networking and Internet infrastructure systems enhance the
carrier and network service provider networks by handling bandwidth and
providing enhanced services. Fiber optic transmission components enhance the
functionality of enterprise and residential access networks by enabling
high-speed transmission of voice, video and data across fiber optic cable.
Network service providers and carriers rely on higher value data centric network
services and accordingly began deploying next generation solutions to
accommodate the data service requirements.

        Growth in the use and availability of wide area networks was stimulated
by many factors including the need to share information between centralized
repositories and remote enterprise locations, to access and use the Internet for
communications and marketing and to electronically access external resources
used by the enterprise. Growth was also being fueled by the increasing
availability of more cost-effective WAN services such as Frame Relay and
Integrated Service Digital Network, or ISDN, making it more affordable for many
organizations to set up a WAN or expand an existing one. The growth in the use
and availability of the Internet coupled with increasing use, power, speed and
complexity of metropolitan area networks and WANs resulted in the increasing
need for equipment that permits high-speed connections throughout the
infrastructure of the Internet.




                                       19
<PAGE>

        OPTICAL NETWORKING AND INTERNET INFRASTRUCTURE ENVIRONMENT

        The Internet has evolved into a network of hundreds of public and
private networks interconnected using Internet Protocol, or IP. Industry
analysts expect continued dramatic growth worldwide in Internet use and Internet
traffic. As the Internet continues to grow, business enterprises are
increasingly reliant on communications networks and software applications as
strategic assets that are critical to business success. Communications networks
are being expanded to deliver new services and distribute computing applications
such as customer network management, e-mail, video, conferencing, and Voice Over
Internet Protocol to suppliers, customers and employees.

        While consumers use the Internet for education and communication,
business and service providers are realizing the critical nature of network and
application performance. To meet the growth in the demand for high-speed data
services, service providers are invested heavily to construct and upgrade the
transmission foundation of the public network infrastructure worldwide. The
public network infrastructure, which was originally built for voice traffic, is
inadequate to handle data and must be upgraded. Expenditures are spread across
fiber deployment, dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, products,
Synchronous Optical Network, or SONET, transmission equipment, and more
recently, and intelligent optical networking solutions.

        Advances in emerging intelligent optical networking market should
fundamentally change the architecture of the public network and create a host of
new opportunities in infrastructure development, service delivery and
applications. Intelligent optical networking offers a solution to public network
scaling and high-speed service delivery.

        Intelligent optical networking will eventually deliver high speed data
services provisioned over wavelengths and intelligent optical light paths. The
flexibility and scalability of wave service is expected to offer service
providers the ability to satisfy this demand for increased bandwidth while
creating competitive differentiation in their service portfolio with
just-in-time provisioning capability.

        FIBER OPTIC ENVIRONMENT

        Fiber optic cable can generally carry more information at less expense
and with greater signal quality than copper wire. The higher the speed of
transmission, the greater the capacity and the larger the span of the network,
the more essential is fiber optic transmission. Fiber has long replaced copper
as the preferred technology for long distance communications and major backbone
telephony and data transmissions. Due to its advantages, fiber optic technology
is also increasingly used to enhance performance and capacity within enterprise
networks and access networks.

        Demand for fiber optic transmission components is driven by four
factors:

    -   fiber applications have expanded beyond traditional telephony
        applications and are being deployed in enterprise network backbones to
        support high-speed data communications;

    -   within access networks, fiber is rapidly expanding downstream toward
        end-users as access networks deploy Fiber-in-the-Loop and fiber to the
        curb, or FTTC architectures to support services such as fast Internet
        access and interactive video;

    -   the growth of cellular communications and PCs requires fiber to be
        deployed both within and between cells; and

    -   the usage of fiber in short distances increases the demand for
        components as more are used per mile of fiber. As the size, number and
        complexity of these fiber networks increases, management expects that
        the demand for fiber optic components will grow significantly.




                                       20
<PAGE>

        Fiber Optic Transmission in Data Communications. As higher speed
connections are implemented in LAN/WAN systems, fiber optic transmission becomes
an essential element in computer networks. For transmission speeds of 100 Mbps
and higher, and transmission distances of 100 meters and longer, fiber optic
transmission must be deployed. Virtually all high-speed transmission standards,
such as Fiber Distributed Data Interface, Asynchronous Transfer Mode, or ATM,
Fast Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet, specify fiber optic media as the most
practical technology for transmission. The steady rise in high-speed connections
and the growth in the span of networks, including the need to connect remote
workgroups, have been driving the deployment of fiber optic cable throughout
enterprise networks.

        Fiber Optic Transmission in Access Networks. To meet end users'
increased demand for content, software and services, network operators must
acquire additional bandwidth by either enhancing their existing networks or
constructing new ones. Cable TV operators are increasingly seeking to provide
general telecommunication services, high-speed Internet access and
video-on-demand. As a result, they are now faced with the need to transmit
upstream, from customer premises to the cable TV operator and to send different
signals to individual end-users. Similarly, local exchange carriers are
implementing new technological standards, such as SONET and fiber-intensive
architectures such as FTTC to enable high-speed Internet access and the delivery
of cable TV and Internet services to the home. Management believes that
deployment of and upgrades to these systems will increase the demand for MRV's
fiber optic components that typically are better able to endure environmental
factors, such as rain, snow, heat and wind, cost-effectively. In addition,
communications involving cellular and personal communication services, or PCS,
represent a fast emerging market for fiber optic networks, including their usage
in the backbone and landline portion of wireless networks.

RECENT ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN

        Macroeconomic factors, such as an economic slowdown in the U.S. and
abroad, have detrimentally impacted demand for communications products, thereby
resulting in reduced demand for optical components and equipment. The
unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending has detrimentally
affected sales to service providers, network equipment companies, e-commerce and
Internet businesses, and the manufacturing industry in the United States during
2001 to date, and may continue to affect them for the remainder of 2002 and
thereafter. Announcements by industry participants and observers indicate there
is a slowdown in industry spending and participants are seeking to reduce
existing inventories. For information on charges MRV has taken to its financial
results as a result of these conditions, please see the discussion in Item 7
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Market Conditions and Current Outlook."

MRV'S CONCENTRATION

        MRV creates, acquires, finances and operates companies, and through
them, designs, develops, manufactures and markets products, which enable
high-speed broadband communications. MRV concentrates on companies and products
devoted to optical components and network infrastructure systems. MRV has
leveraged its early experience in fiber optic technology into a number of
focused operating units specializing in advanced fiber optic components,
switching, routing, transaction management and wireless optical transmission
systems which it has created, financed or acquired. Products and product
developments of MRV's wholly or majority owned subsidiaries or operating units
include the following:

        Luminent, Inc.

        Luminent provides an extensive offering of active and passive
singlemode fiber optic components that support a wide range of requirements for
the metropolitan and access networks. It is currently shipping a variety of
active and passive fiber optic components. Active components are the core




                                       21
<PAGE>

technology for optical networks and require electrical power to generate, boost
or transform optical signals. Luminent's passive fiber optic components are used
to direct, split and merge optical signals without the use of electricity. These
components have become critical due to the use of fiber amplifiers, passive
networks and WDM technology. Luminent provides an extensive offering of active
and passive singlemode fiber optic components that support a wide range of
requirements for the metropolitan and access networks. It is currently shipping
a variety of active and passive fiber optic components. Active components are
the core technology for optical networks and require electrical power to
generate, boost or transform optical signals. Luminent's active components
include:

    -   Mixed signal, single fiber components, called duplexers and triplexers,
        which are capable of transmitting bi-directional digital and analog
        information over a single fiber;

    -   A wide variety of transceivers, the most common fiber-optic data link.
        Transceivers have both a transmitter and receiver built into one unit. A
        transmitter converts electrical signals into optical signals and
        launches them into the fiber. A receiver receives the optical signal,
        converts it back to an electrical signal and amplifies it;

    -   Coarse WDM subsystems, which enable communications equipment
        manufacturers to implement wavelength division multiplexing inside their
        equipment at a fraction of the cost of dense WDM;

    -   Light emitting diodes, or LEDs, used as a light source for fiber optic
        transmission;

    -   Laser diodes, which convert electrical signals to optical signals and
        are the most widely used light sources for optical communications
        systems;

    -   Analog fiber optic links, which are used in cable television, cellular,
        satellite and wireless local area networks transmissions;

    -   Photo detectors, which convert optical signals into electrical signals
        and receivers that include photo detectors with electrical amplifiers
        for greater functionality; and

    -   Electro-optic modulators, which are used to transfer information onto a
        light signal without the modifying wavelength of the light and enable
        data to travel extended transmission distances compared to a directly
        modulated laser.

        Luminent's passive fiber optic components are used to direct, split and
merge optical signals without the use of electricity. These components have
become critical due to the use of fiber amplifiers, passive networks and WDM
technology. Luminent's passive components include:

    -   A wide variety of couplers, one of the most common components of any
        optical network, used to combine and/or split optical signals;

    -   Isolators, which allow transmission of optical signals in one direction
        but block transmission in the other direction;

    -   WDM thin film add/drop components, which enable the transmission of
        specific optical wavelengths and the reflection of others and allow for
        the removal and insertion of wavelengths in WDM systems with minimal
        power losses;

    -   Optical circulators, which are used in wavelength management
        applications to direct optical signals to the appropriate sections of
        the system;




                                       22
<PAGE>

    -   Variable fiber optic attenuators, which reduce the amplitude of a signal
        without distorting the waveform and are used to equalize the power
        between different WDM channels before being amplified by a fiber
        amplifier;

    -   Optical connectors, which are used to couple light either directly from
        a component or from another fiber; and

    -   Adapters, which facilitate the connection of any two connectors.

        Optical Access, Inc.

        Optical Access is an optical networking and Internet infrastructure
company that designs, manufactures and markets optical wireless products
enabling service providers to offer high-speed broadband access within the last
mile of the communications network in a cost effective and timely manner.
Optical Access' products are designed to be deployed in a switched mesh
architecture, which means that its products allow transmission of data between
any two points on the network and enable full re-routing of traffic around a
transmission link or equipment failure. In addition, its products feature a
backup wireless radio frequency option, which reduces problems associated with
adverse weather conditions. Optical Access offers the TereScope family of
products, which provide optical wireless links, and OptiSwitch(TM) products,
which enable switching, provisioning and aggregation. All of these products can
be remotely managed through Optical Access' MegaVision network management
system. Because each of its products can perform independently, Optical Access's
customers can also purchase products separately with no performance degradation.

        TereScope. TereScope products are optical wireless links that utilize
high-powered optics, which allow for high-speed, long distance optical wireless
transmission of data. By installing its TereScope products in a mesh
configuration with a minimum of two connections into each building and utilizing
Optical Access' OptiSwitch(TM) switching technology, Optical Access' products
enable full re-routing of traffic around a link or equipment failure. Optical
Access believes that its TereScope products offer one of the first commercially
available wireless optic systems with built-in auto fallback to radio frequency
links.

        TereScope devices can be installed on a building's rooftop or side or in
an office behind a window rather than a radio tower. They are constructed with a
transmitter, which emits light that does not damage the human eye, and a
receiver that detects light. Optical Access offers a range of TereScope
products, the smallest of which looks like a security camera and the largest of
which is the size of a computer monitor. The products feature a number of
recently developed technologies to account for issues that have historically
limited the use of optical wireless systems, including a system that enables
them to compensate for misalignment due to building movements or interference
caused by flying objects such as birds. In addition, TereScope products feature
high power laser transmitters and large optical receivers to permit connectivity
over longer distances. The TereScope ranges in list price from approximately
$4,000 to $120,000, depending on data rate and maximum range, with an additional
$5,000 to $10,000 for a 10 megabit per second radio frequency backup.

        OptiSwitch(TM). Optical Access' family of OptiSwitch(TM) products
enables a mesh architecture, bandwidth distribution, provisioning and
termination for all-IP networks. The OptiSwitch is designed to provide customer
premise connectivity to business users, smart aggregation and to enable
execution of any service level agreement by advanced features and capabilities
of traffic classification and quality of service. Direct connection of the
OptiSwitch(TM) ports to TereScope products allow service providers to offer a
complete cost-effective metropolitan solution. The system is designed to manage
optical wireless mesh topology management and subscriber management in Ethernet
broadband networks. The OptiSwitch(TM) products range in price from $1,400 to
$190,000, depending upon data rate and number of ports.




                                       23
<PAGE>

        MegaVision. Optical Access' MegaVision management system provides
software based graphical network management and monitoring that is fully
integrated with its optical transmission and switching products. The MegaVision
network management system allows service providers to provision their networks
from a centralized location. With the graphical interface offered by Optical
Access, the provider receives a comprehensive view of the network as well as
fault isolation, configuration, performance and security management of the
network.

        CEScomm, Inc.

        CEScomm is developing and providing products for manufacturers of
cellular network infrastructure equipment and mobile operators and service
providers for the third generation of wireless solutions commonly known as 3G.
3G is the generic term used for the next generation of mobile communications
systems. These new systems provide enhanced wireless services to those available
today, i.e., voice, text and data. CEScomm specializes in products that provide
the real-time conversion of radio signals generated by Internet ready mobile
devices into asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, traffic streams. Its products
are based on distributed architectures that cluster super computer
multi-processing capabilities between the radio access network and the Internet
protocol, or IP, core network.

        CEScomm's products make it possible for 3G mobile network operators and
equipment vendors to deliver more efficient service with enhanced options. End
users of CEScomm's products include leading 3G wireless network operators such
as NTT DoCoMo, the cellular telephone arm of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone
Corporation in Japan, and European operators using the Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System, or UMTS. CEScomm sells its products to leading
cellular equipment vendors, including Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and
Ericsson.

        iTouch Communications, Inc.

        iTouch provides next-generation Internet infrastructure solutions that
enable service providers and carriers to deliver and monitor, on a real-time
basis, high-speed Internet services. iTouch's products utilize internet
protocol, or IP, routing and wide area network, or WAN, technologies, which
allow for faster development of feature rich high-speed data acquisition and
management systems.

        iTouch's In-Reach product suite supports network element management and
out-of-band management applications for large, heterogeneous communication
networks. In-Reach products offer console, alarm, sensor and power management
solutions and possess features ranging from simple network management protocol,
or SNMP, -based discrete alarm signal collection and distribution to remote
console management of routers, switches, and equipment from Sun Microsystems and
other providers. Standalone and chassis-based In-Reach products enable upgrades
at central sites and downloads of software to thousands of remote network
elements.

        NBase-Xyplex.

        NBase-Xyplex, a division of MRV, provides products and services, such as
the Fiber Driver family of products, to enhance network infrastructures for city
carriers, service providers, cable operators and campus and enterprise networks.
The Fiber Driver family of products focuses on providing more effective usage of
fiber-optic cables for carriers, service providers, cable operators and campus
and enterprise networks. The Fiber Driver product line is designed to address
the growing need for connecting networks of different media and speed into
today's expanding fiber optic infrastructure.

        The Fiber Driver family consists of over 150 different converters,
repeaters, switches, distance extenders and coarse wave division multiplexer
modules, all of which operate on the same modular, and scalable platform. Each
module provides a different solution and together the family covers almost every




                                       24
<PAGE>

communication protocol. The family includes a base chassis in one, two, four and
16 slot varieties and is fully managed through any network management system
based on simple network management protocol, or SNMP, including the MegaVision
network management system discussed above under Optical Access.

        Charlotte's Networks, Inc.

        Charlotte's Networks is developing a core router for large service
providers and carriers. The Aranea core router is Charlotte's Networks' first
product. The Aranea router is capable of carrying both IP packets and
time-division multiplexing, or TDM, voice traffic and enables the current WAN to
grow in high orders of magnitude both in processing power and rate of
transmission. The router has the ability to emulate a class 4 or 5 switch,
enabling its voice traffic capability. It offers various interfaces and allows
multiple Aranea machines to be clustered into a single virtual router for
ultra-high speed. This feature allows construction of a machine with an
aggregate bandwidth of multiple terabits per second. The Aranea can be
configured to combine up to 16 port interfaces of any kind into a single dense
wavelength division multiplexing link of up to 40 Gbps. The clustered machines
may be managed as a single virtual router through the operating system called
AROS. The Aranea is designed to meet the exact requirements of new generation
telecommunication service providers in terms of bandwidth, differentiated
services, scalability and reliability and is positioned to take advantage of the
explosive growth predicted for the WAN or terabit router segment of the router
market.

        Zuma Networks, Inc.

        Zuma is developing a next generation gigabit Ethernet switch router
platform. The platform is distinguished by very high gigabit Ethernet port
density in a single chassis, outstanding packet forwarding performance; a
multi-processor, multi-component hardware architecture supporting carrier class
survivability; and a multi-processor software architecture supporting the
coupling of wire speed switch routing functions with wire speed network services
in a single platform. This router, named Zuma LightReef(TM) entered beta trials
in December 2000 and shipments began in April 2001.

        European Subsidiaries

        MRV maintains European subsidiaries and branch offices in France,
Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway and Finland,
which are involved in sales, services and distribution of data networking
products. The activities of these companies include system design, integration
and support as well as product sales to enterprise customers and carriers,
including service providers. Products sold include products manufactured by
other MRV companies or divisions, as well as products manufactured by third
party vendors supplied as part of network system integration and distribution
services. Such specialization allows MRV to penetrate targeted vertical and
regional markets. As of December 31, 2001, MRV owned approximately 80% of its
European subsidiaries.

OTHER KEY TECHNOLOGY INTERESTS

        In addition to its wholly owned and majority owned companies, MRV has
significant interests in other key technology companies, including RedC Optical
Networks and Hyperchannel Ltd.

        Optical Crossing's core experience is in free-space laser communications
and semiconductor optoelectronic components. Optical Crossing has three internal
product groups -- Optoelectronics Products, Optical Wireless Products and
Networking Products and Services -- that address multiple aspects of optical
wireless technology, from components to architectural implementation of
all-optical networks. Products are currently in the prototyping and development
stage.




                                       25
<PAGE>

        RedC Optical Networks has developed a complete line of optical modules
used for operating, monitoring and protecting optical networks including:
optical amplifiers, add/drop modules, protection and restoration modules and
DWDM monitoring.

        Hyperchannel, which does business under its trademark Hyporium, is an
independent net market maker for the information technology, or IT, industry,
enabling IT vendors, distributors and resellers to trade online. Hyporium offers
an alternative route to market through an online trading hub and reseller web
storefronts.

SALES AND MARKETING

        Through the end of 2001, each of MRV and its operating company
maintained its own separate sales and marketing staffs. In early 2002, with the
goals of cutting costs and increasing revenue while better serving its
customers, MRV centralized sales and marketing and established product-solution
groups, which it formed to replace the sales and marketing organizations of its
independent business units and which were folded into MRV. These
product-solution groups include: Active and Passive Optical Components, Network
Physical Infrastructure, Switches and Routers, Remote Device Management, and
Services and Other. The sales forces of the formerly independent business units
were unified, and cover two sales regions - MRV Americas and MRV International.
MRV retained only the independent sales organization of Luminent.

        MRV and its companies have sold their products worldwide to over 500
diverse customers in a wide range of industries; primarily, data communications,
telecommunications and cable. No customer accounted for more than 10% of MRV's
consolidated revenues in 1999, 2000 or 2001.

        MRV employs various methods, such as public relations, advertising, and
trade shows to build awareness of its products. Public relations activities are
conducted both internally and through relationships with outside agencies. Major
public relation activities are focused around new product introductions,
corporate partnerships and other events of interest to the market. MRV
supplements its public relations through media advertising programs and
attendance at various trade shows throughout the year, both in the United States
and internationally.

SALES, SUPPORT AND DISTRIBUTION

        MRV continually seeks to augment and increase its distribution channels
and sales forces to accelerate growth. Products are sold through MRV and its
operating companies' direct sales forces, VARs, systems integrators,
distributors, manufacturer's representatives and OEM customers. Sales and
distribution divisions are organized along the following primary lines: direct
sales, including OEM; domestic and international distributors; value-added
resellers, or VARs, and systems integrators; and manufacturer's representatives.

        Direct Sales. MRV and its companies employ worldwide direct sales forces
primarily to sell their products to large OEM accounts and in some cases to end
users. MRV believes that a direct sales force can best serve large customers by
allowing salespeople to develop strong, lasting relationships, which can meet
the customers' needs effectively. Direct sales staffs are located across the
United States, Europe and Israel.

        Domestic and International Distributors. MRV and its companies work with
both domestic and international distributors. Geographic exclusivity is normally
not awarded unless the distributor has demonstrated acceptable performance.
Distributors must successfully complete MRV's training programs and provide
system installation, technical support, sales support and follow-on service to
local customers. Generally, distributors have agreements with a one-year term
subject to automatic renewal unless otherwise canceled by either party. In
certain cases with major distributors, the agreements are terminable




                                       26
<PAGE>

on 30 days' notice. MRV uses stocking distributors, which purchase its product
and stock it in their warehouse for immediate delivery, and non-stocking
distributors, which purchase its products after the receipt of an order.
Internationally, MRV sells through numerous distributors in Asia, Africa,
Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Canada and Latin America.

        Value-Added Resellers and Systems Integrators. MRV and its companies use
a select group of VARs and system integrators in the U.S., which are generally
selected for their ability to offer MRV's products in combination with related
products and services, such as system design, integration and support. This
specialization allows MRV and its companies to penetrate targeted vertical
markets such as telecommunications and cable TV. Generally, MRV uses a two-tier
distribution system to reach a broader range of customers; however VARs may
purchase the product directly from one or more of MRV's companies if the volume
warrants a direct relationship.

        Manufacturers' Representatives. To supplement MRV's direct sales
efforts, manufacturer's representatives are assigned by territory in the United
States and work exclusively on commission.

        Customer Support and Service. MRV and its companies are committed to
providing strong technical support to their customers. MRV operates customer
service groups, and provides support through engineering groups, sales staff,
distributors, OEMs and VARs. Customer support personnel are currently located at
offices in California, Massachusetts, Maryland, Germany, England, Italy and
Israel.

        International Sales. International sales accounted for approximately
58%, 63% and 67% of MRV's consolidated net revenues in 1999, 2000 and 2001,
respectively.

MANUFACTURING

        MRV outsources the board-level assembly, test and quality control of its
Internet infrastructure products to third party contract manufacturers, thereby
allowing MRV to react quickly to market demand, to avoid the significant capital
investment required to establish and maintain manufacturing and assembly
facilities and to concentrate resources on product design and development. Final
assembly, burn-in, final testing and pack-out are performed by MRV's companies
and MRV and selected third-party contract manufacturers to maintain quality
control. MRV's manufacturing teams are experienced in advanced manufacturing and
testing, in engineering, in ongoing reliability/quality assurance and in
managing third party contract manufacturer's capacity, quality standards and
manufacturing process. Risks associated with the use of independent
manufacturers include unavailability of or delays in obtaining adequate supplies
of products and reduced control of manufacturing quality and production costs.
If MRV's contract manufacturers fail to deliver products in the future on a
timely basis, or at all, it would be extremely difficult for MRV to obtain
adequate supplies of products from other sources on short notice. There can be
no assurance that MRV's third party manufacturers will provide adequate supplies
of quality products on a timely basis, or at all. While MRV could outsource with
other vendors, a change in vendors may require significant time and result in
shipment delays and expenses. The inability to obtain MRV's key products on a
timely basis, the loss of a particular vendor or a change in the terms and
conditions of the outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on MRV's
business, operating results and financial condition.

        MRV relies extensively on MRV's and its companies own production
capabilities for critical semiconductor lasers and LEDs used in MRV's products.
MRV's optical transmission production process involves:

    -   a wafer processing facility for semiconductor laser diode and LED chip
        manufacturing under stringent and accurate procedures using
        state-of-the-art wafer fabrication technology;

    -   high precision electronic and mechanical assembly; and




                                       27
<PAGE>

    -   final assembly and testing.

        Relevant assembly processes include die attach, wire bond, substrate
attachment and fiber coupling. MRV also conducts tests throughout MRV's
manufacturing processes using commercially available and internally built
testing systems that incorporate proprietary procedures. MRV and its companies
perform final product tests on all of their products prior to shipment to
customers. Many of the key processes used in MRV's products are proprietary;
and, therefore, many of the key components of its products are designed and
produced internally. Because MRV and its companies manufacture these and other
key components of their products at their own facilities and they are not
readily available from other sources, any interruption of the manufacturing
process could have a material adverse effect on MRV's operations. Furthermore,
MRV and its companies have a limited number of employees dedicated to the
operation and maintenance of wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of any of
whom could result in their inability to effectively operate and service that
equipment. Wafer fabrication is sensitive to a wide variety of factors,
including variations and impurities in the raw materials, difficulties in the
fabrication process and performance of the manufacturing equipment. There can be
no assurance that MRV and its companies will be able to maintain acceptable
production yields and avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate
production yields are not achieved resulting in product shipment delays, MRV's
business, operating results and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected. While MRV believes its companies have sufficient
manufacturing capacity for growth in the coming years, at various times there
have been shortages of parts in the electronics industry, and certain critical
components have been subject to limited allocations. Although shortages of parts
and allocations have not had a material adverse effect on MRV's results of
operations, there can be no assurance that any future shortages or allocations
would not have that effect.

        MRV and its companies are subject to a variety of federal, state, and
local governmental laws and regulations related to the storage, use, emission,
discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used
in the manufacturing process. Although MRV believes that it is in material
compliance and has complied with all applicable legal requirements, any failure
by MRV to comply with present and future regulations could subject MRV to future
liabilities or the suspension of production. There can be no assurance that
environmental laws and regulations will not result in the need for additional
capital equipment or other requirements. Further, these laws and regulations
could restrict MRV's ability to expand operations. Any failure by MRV or its
companies to obtain required permits for, control of use of, or adequately
restrict the discharge, emission or release of, hazardous substances under
present or future laws and regulations could subject MRV to substantial
liability or could cause MRV's manufacturing operations to be suspended. That
liability or suspension of manufacturing operations could have a material
adverse effect on MRV's operating results. To date, these environmental laws and
regulations have not had a material adverse effect on MRV's operating results.

COMPETITION

        The communications equipment and component industry is intensely
competitive. MRV and its companies compete directly with a number of established
and emerging computer, communications and networking device companies. Direct
competitors in optical networking and Internet infrastructure, generally include
Cisco Systems, Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and 3Com Corporation. Direct
competitors for MRV's optical wireless technology include AirFiber, Inc., fSona
Communications Corporation, Canon and TeraBeam Corporation. Direct competitors
in fiber optic components include Agilent Technologies, Corning Incorporated,
Finisar Corporation, Fujitsu, Infineon AG, International Business Machines
Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corp., Lucent Technologies, Inc., Sumitomo and Tyco
International, Ltd. Many of MRV's competitors have significantly greater
financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources and larger
installed customer bases than MRV. Several of these competitors have recently
introduced or announced their intentions to introduce new competitive products.
Many of the larger companies with which MRV competes offer customers a broader
product




                                       28
<PAGE>

line, which provides a more comprehensive networking solution than the products
of MRV and its companies.

        In addition to competitors competing with products that perform similar
functions, there are also several alternative network technologies. For example,
in the local access market, MRV's products compete with telephone network
technology known as ADSL, an acronym for asymmetric digital subscriber line. In
this technology, digital signals are transmitted through existing telephone
lines from the central office to the home. MRV also expects that competitive
pricing pressures could result in price declines for MRV and its companies and
their competitors' products. This increased competition, if not accompanied by
decreasing costs, could result in reduced margins and loss of market share,
which would materially and adversely affect MRV's business, operating results
and financial condition.

        The communications industry has become increasingly concentrated in
recent years as a result of consolidation. This consolidation is likely to
permit MRV's various competitors to devote significantly greater resources to
the development and marketing of new competitive products and the marketing of
existing competitive products to their larger installed bases. MRV expects that
competition will increase substantially as a result of these and other industry
consolidations and alliances, as well as the emergence of new competitors.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

        To date, MRV and its companies have relied principally upon copyrights
and trade secrets to protect its proprietary technology. Generally, MRV enters
into confidentiality agreements with its employees and key suppliers and
otherwise seek to limit access to and distribution of the source code to
software and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these
steps will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of MRV's technologies or that
a third party will not independently develop technology similar or superior to
any MRV possesses.

        MRV has received notices from third parties claiming possible
infringement of patents with respect to product features or manufacturing
processes and one of these claims, of Rockwell Automation Technologies, has
resulted in litigation that Rockwell commenced in March 2002. See Item 3. Legal
Proceeds. MRV believes these kind of claims are common in the communications
industry because of the large number of patents that have been filed on these
subjects. MRV's policy is to discuss these claims with the claimants in an
effort to demonstrate that its products and/or processes do not violate any
patents. MRV is currently involved in discussions with Lucent Technologies,
Nortel Networks, Ortel, Rockwell and the Lemelson Medical, Education & Research
Foundation. MRV does not believe that any of MRV's or its companies' products or
processes violates any of the patents asserted by these parties and further
believes that it has meritorious defenses if any legal action is taken by any of
these parties and plans to vigorously defend the litigation brought by Rockwell
if it is unable to settle it through negotiations. However, the prosecution by
one or more of these parties of litigation of a claim that results in a
conclusion unfavorable to MRV could materially and adversely affect MRV's
business, operating results and financial condition.

In the future, litigation may be necessary to protect trade secrets and other
intellectual property rights owned by MRV, to enforce any patents issued to MRV
or its companies, to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others
and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any
litigation of this kind could be costly and a diversion of the attention of the
management involved, which could have a material adverse effect on MRV's
business, operating results and financial condition. An adverse determination in
that litigation could further result in the loss of MRV's proprietary rights,
subject it to significant liabilities, require MRV to seek licenses from third
parties or prevent MRV and its companies from manufacturing or selling their
products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on MRV's business,
operating results and financial condition. MRV typically has agreed to




                                       29
<PAGE>

indemnify its customers and key suppliers for liability incurred in connection
with the infringement of a third party's intellectual property rights.

EMPLOYEES

        As of December 31, 2001, MRV and its consolidated companies employed a
total of approximately 2,227 full-time employees compared with approximately
2,600 at December 31, 2000. None of MRV's employees is represented by a union or
governed by a collective bargaining agreement, and MRV believes its employee
relationships are satisfactory.

