ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
          --------

INTRODUCTION
------------

Microsemi Corporation (the "Company", "Microsemi") was incorporated in Delaware
in 1960.  Its name was changed from Microsemiconductor Corporation in February
1983.  The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 2830 South
Fairview Street, Santa Ana, California 92704 and its telephone number is (714)
979-8220.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" and "Microsemi"
refer to Microsemi Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Microsemi is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of analog, mixed-
signal and discrete semiconductors. The Company's semiconductors manage and
regulate power, protect against transient voltage spikes and transmit, receive
and amplify signals.

Microsemi products include individual components as well as complete circuit
solutions that enhance customer designs by providing battery optimization,
reducing size or protecting circuits. Markets the company serves include mobile
connectivity, computer/peripherals, telecommunications, medical,
industrial/commercial, space/satellite and military.


IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that are based on
current expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All of the
non-historical information herein is forward-looking. The forward-looking
statements included herein and elsewhere in this filing are based on, among
other items, current assumptions that the Company will be able to meet its
current operating cash and debt service requirements with internally generated
funds and its available line of credit, that it will be able to successfully
resolve disputes and other business matters as anticipated, that competitive
conditions within the semiconductor, integrated circuit and custom diode
assembly industries will not change materially or adversely, that the Company
will retain existing key personnel, that the Company's forecasts will reasonably
anticipate market demand for its products, and that there will be no materially
adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Other factors that could
cause results to vary materially from current expectations are discussed
elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including part I, item 3; and part II, items 5, 7
and 8. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments that are
difficult to predict accurately and are subject to many factors that can
materially affect results. Forecasting and other management decisions are
subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic
revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of
which may cause the Company to alter its forecasts, which may in turn affect the
Company's results. In light of the factors that can materially affect the
forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information
should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person
that the objectives or plans of the Company will be achieved. Readers are
cautioned against undue weight to forward-looking statements.

PRODUCTS
--------

Microsemi Corporation is a global supplier of commercial and high-reliability
analog integrated circuits and power and signal discrete semiconductors serving
the satellite, telecommunications, computer and peripherals, military/aerospace,
industrial/commercial, and medical markets.

The Company's analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit ("IC") products offer
light, sound and power management for desktop and mobile computing platforms as
well as other power control applications. Power management generally refers to a
class of standard linear integrated circuits ("SLICs") which perform voltage
regulation and reference in most electronic systems. The definition of power
management has broadened in recent years to encompass other devices and modules,
often application specific standard products ("ASSPs"), which address particular
aspects of power management, such as audio or display related ICs. This business
is composed of both a core platform of traditional SLICs, such as low dropout

                                       2
<PAGE>

regulators ("LDOs") and pulse width modulators ("PWMs"), and differentiated
ASSPs such as backlight inverters, audio amplification ICs and small computer
standard interface ("SCSI") terminators.

Major discrete products are silicon rectifiers, zener diodes, low leakage and
high voltage diodes, temperature compensated zener diodes, transistors and a
family of subminiature high power transient suppressor diodes. The Company also
manufactures discrete semiconductors for commercial applications, such as
automatic surge protectors, transient suppressor diodes used for telephone
applications and computer switching diodes used in computer systems.

A partial list of applications of the Company's discrete semiconductor products
includes: heart pacer transient shock protector diodes (where the Company
believes it is the leading supplier in that market), low leakage diodes,
transistors used in jet aircraft engines and high performance test equipment,
high temperature diodes used in oil drilling sensing elements operating at 200
degrees centigrade, temperature compensated zener or rectifier diodes used in
missile systems, power transistors and other electronic systems. The Company's
integrated circuit products are used in computer and data storage, lighting,
automotive, telecommunications, test instruments, defense and space equipment,
high-quality sound reproduction and data transfer.

The Company currently serves a broad group of customers including Motorola,
Lockheed-Martin, Giga-Byte Technology, Raytheon, Mitsubishi Electric, Alcatel,
Cardiac Pacemaker and Zenitron Corp.

MARKETING
---------

Microsemi Corporation is a global supplier of power management, power
conditioning, transient suppression and RF/Microwave semiconductor products. It
serves the satellite, telecommunications, computer and peripherals,
military/aerospace, industrial/commercial, and medical markets with high-
reliability and commercial analog integrated circuits and power and signal
discrete semiconductors.

The Company's products are marketed through domestic electronic component sales
representatives and the Company's inside sales force to original equipment
manufacturers. The Company also employs industrial distributors to service its
customers' needs for standard catalog products. For fiscal year 2000, the
Company's domestic sales accounted for approximately 63% of the Company's
revenues, of which sales representatives and distributors accounted for
approximately 21% and 21%, respectively. The Company has direct sales offices in
many metropolitan areas including Los Angeles, Garden Grove, Santa Ana, Phoenix,
Denver, Chicago, Minneapolis, Montgomeryville, Boston, Long Island, West Palm
Beach, Hong Kong, Singapore and Ireland. Sales to foreign customers, made
through the Company's direct domestic sales force and 26 overseas sales
representatives and distributors, accounted for approximately 37% of fiscal year
2000 sales.

No one customer accounted for more than 4% of the Company's revenue in fiscal
year 2000. However, approximately 21% of the Company's business is to customers
whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
------------------------

The Company believes that continuing timely development and introduction of new
products are essential to maintaining its competitive position.  The Company
currently conducts most of its product development effort in-house.  The Company
also employs outside consultants to assist with product design.

The Company spent approximately $1,532,000, $4,002,000 and $11,196,000, in
fiscal years 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively, for research and development,
none of which was customer sponsored.

The principal focus of the Company's research and development activities has
been to improve processes and to develop new products that support the growth of
its businesses.

                                       3
<PAGE>

MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS
---------------------------

The Company's principal domestic manufacturing operations are located in Santa
Ana and Garden Grove, California; Broomfield, Colorado; Scottsdale, Arizona and
Watertown and Lowell, Massachusetts.  Each operates its own wafer processing,
assembly, testing and screening departments.

The Company's domestic plants manufacture and process all products and
assemblies starting from purchased silicon wafers and piece parts. Manufacturing
and processing operations are controlled in accordance with military as well as
other rigid commercial and industrial specifications.

A major portion of the Company's semiconductor manufacturing effort takes place
after the semiconductor is assembled. Parts are tested a number of times,
visually screened and environmentally subjected to shock, vibration, "burn in"
and electrical tests in order to prove and assure reliability.

The Company purchases silicon wafers, other semiconductor materials and
packaging piece parts from domestic and foreign suppliers generally on long-term
purchase commitments which are cancelable with 30 to 90 days notice. With the
exception of glass sleeves for high reliability diode products and glass to
metal sealed parts for computer diode and zener diode products, all materials
are available from multiple sources. In the case of sole source items, the
Company has never suffered production delays as a result of vendors' inability
to supply the parts. The Company believes that it stocks adequate supplies for
all materials, based upon backlog, delivery lead time and anticipated new
business. In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into purchase
agreements with some of its major suppliers to supply products over periods of
up to 18 months.

The Company also purchases a portion of its finished wafers from foundry
sources. If a foundry were to terminate its relationship with the Company, or
should the Company's supply from a foundry be interrupted or terminated for any
reason, such as a natural disaster or another unforeseen event, the Company may
not have sufficient time to replace the supply of products manufactured by that
foundry.

Certain subcontract suppliers provide packaging and testing for the Company's
products necessary to deliver finished products. The Company pays those
suppliers for assembled or fully tested products meeting predetermined
specifications. After wafer level testing, the silicon wafers are separated into
individual dice that are then assembled into packages and tested in accordance
with the Company's test procedures.

There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain sufficient supply of
product from foundry or subcontract assembly sources to meet customer demand in
the future. Obtaining sufficient foundry capacity is particularly difficult
during periods of high demand for foundry services, and may become substantially
more difficult if the Company's product requirements increase significantly. In
addition, because the Company must order products and build inventory
substantially in advance of product shipments, there is a risk that the Company
will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories for
particular products. This inventory risk is heightened because certain of the
Company's key customers place orders with short lead times.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS
------------------

The Company conducts a portion of its operations outside the United States and
its business is subject to risks associated with many factors beyond its
control, such as fluctuations in foreign currency rates, instability of foreign
economies and governments, and changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies
affecting trade and investment. The Company owns or leases manufacturing and
assembling facilities in Ennis, Ireland; Mumbai, India and Hong Kong and is a
partner in a joint venture in The People's Republic of China (PRC). No assurance
can be made that political and economic factors in such countries will not have
material adverse effects on the assets, cash flows and results of operations of
the Company.

The Company's Mumbai, India facility assembles a commercial zener diode line to
compete in the lower-cost commercial and consumer markets.  This plant also
performs subcontract coil manufacturing.

                                       4
<PAGE>

The Company's Hong Kong subsidiary, Microsemi (H.K.) Ltd., produces diode
products for commercial customers.  The Hong Kong subsidiary utilizes diode
chips manufactured in the Company's U.S. plants and assembles, tests and
finishes the products.  The plant is also approved for assembly of certain
military specified diodes.

The Company's Ennis, Ireland operation manufactures diodes, rectifiers, zeners,
thyristors and transistors and supports the other Microsemi operations.  This
plant is Defense Supply Center Columbus (DSCC) approved by the U.S. government
to screen high reliability product to Military Specification Standard MIL-PRF-
19500 and is also European Space Agency qualified.  A trading company at this
facility services European customers with products from Microsemi U.S. and Asian
locations.

SALES TO FOREIGN CUSTOMERS
--------------------------

Sales to foreign customers represented approximately 23%, 35% and 37% of net
sales for the 1998, 1999 and 2000 fiscal years, respectively. Foreign sales may
be subject to political and economic risks, including financial or political
instability, currency fluctuations, changes in the effective price of goods in
local currencies, the effect of trade sanctions, embargoes, or changes in
import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates and difficulties in
collecting receivables and enforcing contracts generally; any of these factors
and other trade policies could adversely affect the Company's sales to foreign
customers or the collection of receivables generated from such sales. Many of
the Company's customers, including space customers, provide the Company minimal
information on future ordering plans. Therefore, fluctuations in backlog can be
unpredictable.

ORDER BACKLOG
-------------

The Company's consolidated order backlog at October 1, 2000, for delivery within
twelve months, was $87,335,000, as compared to $66,700,000 at October 3, 1999.
The Company's backlog at any particular date may not be representative of actual
sales for any succeeding period because of various factors, which may include
that lead times for the release of purchase orders depend upon the scheduling
practices of individual customers, the delivery times of new or non-standard
products can be affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing
considerations, the rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month
to month, and the continual possibility of customer changes in delivery
schedules or cancellations of orders having an adverse effect on actual sales.

Also, a portion of the Company's sales are to military and aerospace markets
which are subject to the business risk of changes in governmental appropriations
and changes in national defense policies and priorities.  All of the Company's
contracts with prime U.S. Government contractors contain customary provisions
permitting termination at any time at the convenience of the U.S. Government or
the prime contractors upon payment to the Company for costs incurred plus a
reasonable profit.  Certain contracts are also subject to price re-negotiation
in accordance with U.S. Government sole source procurement provisions.

COMPETITION
-----------

The markets in which the Company competes are extremely competitive. The Company
expects that competition will increase. The principal factors of competition in
the Company's markets include performance, product features, product
availability, price, quality, timing of new product introductions and the
emergence of new technologies.

The Company competes in the semiconductor market, particularly in the area of
high reliability components. The Company has numerous competitors across all of
its product lines. In the defense market, the Company believes that it possesses
a considerable share of the market. In the commercial/industrial arena, there
are numerous competitors such as Motorola, Inc., General Semiconductor, Inc.,
Texas Instruments, Semtech, Linear Tech, Maxim, Dallas Semiconductor, Vishay,
Fairchild Semiconductor and International Rectifier, which are significantly
larger and have greater resources and larger market shares than Microsemi. In
addition, Microsemi has licensed technology from and to parties, which have, in
certain cases, the right to use the technology to develop products competitive
with the Company's products. For

                                       5
<PAGE>

instance, in a license and supply agreement with LinFinity Microelectronics,
Inc. ("LinFinity"), IMP, Inc. has the right to manufacture, market and sell a
line of SCSI products through its own sales force in direct competition with
LinFinity. Commercial products are under extreme price pressure due to intense
price competition. The market for analog ICs is also intensely competitive. With
respect to application-specific data communications devices, the Company's
principal competitors are Dallas Semiconductor, IMP, Inc., and Texas
Instruments. In the area of integrated circuit products, because the markets are
diverse and highly fragmented, the Company expects to encounter different
competitors on different products. The Company's principal competitors are
expected to include Linear Technology Corporation, IMP, Inc., Maxim Integrated
Products, Inc., Analog Devices Inc., Dallas Semiconductor, Micrel, Motorola,
National Semiconductor Corporation, Semtech, Texas Instruments and certain
European and Asian manufacturers. Due to the increasing demand for analog
circuits, the Company expects intensified competition from existing and new
competitors. Increased competition could adversely affect Microsemi's financial
condition, results of operations or cash flow of the Company.

There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully
in the future. The Company's ability to compete successfully is dependent upon
its response to the entry of new competitors, the average selling prices
received for its products, changing technology and customer requirements,
development or acquisition of new products, the timing of new product
introductions by the Company or its competitors, continued improvement of
existing products, changes in overall worldwide market and economic conditions,
cost effectiveness, quality, service and market acceptance of the Company's
products. Price competition in the industry is intense and may increase, which
may have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. There can
be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully as to
price or any of these other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company
will have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing,
distribution and support capabilities to compete successfully. The Company's
future success will be highly dependent upon the successful development and
introduction of new products that are responsive to market needs. There can be
no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully develop or market any
such products.

CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY
---------------------

The semiconductor market is subject to changes in technologies and industry
standards. To remain competitive, the Company must continue to devote resources
to advance process technologies, to increase product performance, to improve
manufacturing yields and to improve the mix between the Company's shipment of
military and commercial products and between its high cost and low cost
products. There can be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not
develop new technologies that are superior to the Company's technology.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
------------------

The Company generally does not rely on patent protection for any aspect of its
technology. The Company believes that patents often provide only narrow
protection and require public disclosure of information which may otherwise be
subject to trade secret protection. The Company's reliance upon protection of
some of its technology as "trade secrets" will not necessarily protect the
Company from the use by other persons of its technology, or their use of
technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in the
Company's trade secrets. There can be no assurance that others will not be able
to independently duplicate or exceed the Company's technology in whole or in
part. No assurance can be made that the Company will be able to maintain the
confidentiality of the Company's technology, dissemination of which could have
an adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, litigation may be
necessary to determine the scope and the validity of the Company's proprietary
rights. There can be no assurance that patents held by the Company will not be
challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder
will provide competitive advantages to the Company.

If the Company's products were found to violate a patent or other right of a
third party, the Company's business could be adversely affected. In addition,
the laws of certain countries in which the Company's products are or may be
developed, manufactured or sold, including Hong Kong, Japan, China, Singapore,
Thailand and Taiwan, may not protect the Company's products and intellectual
property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

                                       6
<PAGE>

MANUFACTURING RISKS
-------------------

The Company's manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and
costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve
yields and product performance. Minute impurities or other difficulties in the
manufacturing process can lower yields. In addition, California and the Pacific
Rim are known to contain various earthquake faults. The Company's operations
could be materially adversely affected if production at any of its facilities
were interrupted for any reason. There can be no assurance that the Company will
not experience manufacturing difficulties in the future.

The Company subcontracts a portion of its wafer fabrication to outside
foundries. There are a number of foundries which, given appropriate lead times,
could meet some of Microsemi's needs. However, the Company can not guarantee
that it will be able to meet its customers' required delivery schedules. Because
of the unique nature of the manufacturing processes, it would be difficult for
Microsemi to arrange for independent suppliers to make wafers in a short period
of time. If a fire, natural disaster or any other event prevents Microsemi from
operating the factory for more than a few days, the Company's revenue and
financial condition could be severely impacted. Microsemi believes that it has
sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet its near term plans although prolonged
problems with any specific piece of equipment could cause Microsemi to miss its
goals.

Microsemi purchases most of its raw materials, including silicon wafers, on a
purchase order basis from a limited number of vendors. If any subcontractors or
vendors are unable to provide these services or materials in the future, the
relationships with Microsemi's customers could be seriously affected and its
revenues, financial condition and cash flows could be severely damaged.

After certain wafers are fabricated and tested, they are sent to contract
assembly houses to be packaged. Microsemi's integrated circuit products are
packaged and tested by a limited number of third party subcontractors in Asian
countries. Some of the raw materials included in these operations are obtained
from sole source suppliers. Although the Company seeks to reduce its dependence
on sole and limited source suppliers both for assembly services and for
materials, disruption or financial, operational, production or quality assurance
difficulties at any of these sources could occur and cause Microsemi to have
severe delivery problems.

EMPLOYEES
---------

On October 1, 2000, the Company employed 1,827 persons domestically including
185 in engineering, 1,421 in manufacturing, 104 in marketing and 117 in general
management and administration. Additionally, 638 persons were employed in the
Company's Hong Kong, Mumbai, India, and Ennis, Ireland operations. None of the
Company's employees is represented by a labor union. The Company has experienced
no work stoppage and believes its employee relations are good.

DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL
---------------------------

The Company's future performance is significantly dependent on the continued
active participation of members of its current management. The Company does not
have written employment contracts with its employees. Should one or more of the
Company's key management employees leave or otherwise become unavailable to the
Company, the Company's business and results of operations may be materially
adversely affected.

PRODUCT LIABILITY
-----------------

The Company's business exposes it to potential liability risks that are inherent
in the manufacturing and marketing of high-reliability electronic components for
critical applications. No assurance can be made that the Company's product
liability insurance coverage is adequate or that present coverage will continue
to be available at acceptable costs, or that a product liability claim would not
adversely affect the business or financial condition of the Company.

                                       7
<PAGE>

CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS
----------------------------

The Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Shareholder Rights Plan and
certain employment compensation plans contain provisions that make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire, or that may discourage a third party
from attempting to acquire control of the Company. In addition, as a Delaware
corporation, the Company is subject to the restrictions imposed under Section
203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may deter the Company from
engaging in certain change of control transactions with certain of its
stockholders under certain circumstances.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
------------------------

While the Company believes that it has the environmental permits necessary to
conduct its business and that its operations conform to present environmental
regulations, increased public attention has been focused on the environmental
impact of semiconductor operations. The Company, in the conduct of its
manufacturing operations, has handled and does handle materials that are
considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws and,
therefore, is subject to regulations related to their use, storage, discharge
and disposal. No assurance can be made that the risk of accidental release of
such materials can be completely eliminated. In addition, the Company operates
or owns facilities located on or near real property that formerly might have
been used in ways that involved such materials. In the event of a violation of
environmental laws, the Company could be held liable for damages and the costs
of remediation, and, along with the rest of the semiconductor industry, is
subject to variable interpretations and governmental priorities concerning
environmental laws and regulations. Environmental statutes have been interpreted
to provide for joint and several liability and strict liability regardless of
actual fault. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries
will not be required to incur costs to comply with, or that the operations,
business, or financial condition of the Company will not be adversely affected
by current or future environmental laws or regulations. (See "Legal
Proceedings")

RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS
------------------------------

The Company's strategy to increase its revenue and the markets it serves has
included and may continue to include acquisition of complementary businesses. In
and prior to fiscal year 2000, the Company has consummated acquisitions of
businesses and product lines and may continue to make acquisitions. There can be
no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire or manage such
companies or products or successfully integrate such operations into those of
the Company without encountering unanticipated costs, liabilities, obligations,
delays or other problems. The Company may compete for acquisition and expansion
opportunities with companies that have greater resources than the Company. There
can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be available or
that acquisitions will be obtainable on terms acceptable to the Company.
