ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

     JDS Uniphase Corporation is a high technology company that designs,
develops, manufactures and distributes fiber optic components, modules and
subsystems for the fiber optic communications industry. These products are
deployed in advanced optical communications networks for the telecommunications
and cable television industries. Incorporated in Delaware in October 1993, we
are the product of several substantial mergers and acquisitions, including,
among others, the combination of Uniphase Corporation and JDS FITEL Inc. to form
JDS Uniphase Corporation on June 30, 1999, and the subsequent acquisitions of
Optical Coating Laboratory, Inc. ("OCLI") on February 4, 2000, E-TEK Dynamics,
Inc. ("E-TEK") on June 30, 2000 and SDL, Inc. ("SDL") on February 13, 2001.

     Fiber optic communications systems deliver voice, video, audio and text
data information over high-capacity fiber optic cables. Although ultimately
highly complex, a fiber optic communications system performs three basic
functions common to all communications systems: transmitting, receiving and
routing (switching) information, in this case information encoded on light
signals. Our products, fiber optic components, modules and subsystems, alone and
in combinations, perform all of these functions and are the building blocks of
fiber optic communications systems. We sell our products to the world's leading
and emerging telecommunications networking and cable television system
providers. These companies include established industry participants, such as
Alcatel, Ciena, Cisco, Corning, Lucent, Marconi, Motorola, Nortel, Siemens and
Tyco, along with emerging companies, such as Corvis, ONI Systems, Juniper
Networks and Sycamore. In turn, the system providers supply integrated systems
to telecommunications carriers such as AT&T, WorldCom, Qwest and Sprint.

     Our component products include semiconductor lasers, high-speed external
modulators, transmitters, couplers, multiplexers, circulators, tunable filters,
optical switches and isolators for fiber optic applications. Our module and
subsystem level products include amplifiers, transponders, transceivers, optical
performance monitors and dispersion compensation modules. We also supply our
system provider customers with test instruments for both system production
applications and network installation.

     We also sell a number of other products for applications outside the fiber
optic industry that use the same or similar technologies as those used in our
fiber optics products business. These additional products include commercial
lasers, advanced light interference pigments, optical display and projection
products, and gas cluster ion beam surface equipment used in a variety of
markets, including the semiconductor and biomedical industries.

INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT AND OUR GLOBAL REALIGNMENT PROGRAM

  INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT

     During the second half of the 1990s through calendar 2000, the fiber optic
communications industry experienced a period of considerable growth, and we
participated in that growth as a leading supplier in these markets. This growth
was attributable primarily to: (a) the introduction of wavelength division
multiplexing (WDM) technology (under which multiple light signals are
transmitted down a single optical fiber cable), which allowed the expansion of
fiber optic network capacity without the expense and time required to install
additional fiber cable; (b) the unprecedented growth during this period in data
traffic, in general, and the internet, in particular, which created
exponentially increasing demand for larger, faster and more robust networks
(commonly collectively referred to loosely as "bandwidth"); (c) the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which sought to open existing proprietary
telecommunications infrastructures to multiple carriers, and, as a consequence,
created a market for new upstart telecommunications carriers (called competitive
local exchange carriers, or CLECs), each of which moved rapidly to deploy its
own network; and (d) an abundance of relatively low cost capital available for
network development and expansion. Together, these factors fueled a rapid and
substantial installation of fiber optic networks in anticipation of rapidly
growing bandwidth demand and future sales. As a result of the demand placed on
our system provider customers by established and
                                        1
<PAGE>   3

emerging telecommunications carriers, we faced mounting, unrelenting, demand
during this period for our products. In response, we focused much of our efforts
on growing our business, internally and through acquisitions, to meet the
increasingly urgent needs of our customers for higher performance products,
increased product breadth and expanded manufacturing capacity. As a result of
these efforts, our quarterly sales grew rapidly, for example increasing from $87
million for the quarter ended June 30, 1999 to $925 million for the quarter
ended December 31, 2000.

     Since the beginning of calendar 2001, we and our industry have experienced
a dramatic downturn, the primary direct cause of which has been a precipitous
decrease in network deployment and capital spending by the telecommunications
carriers. This decrease can be attributable to, among other things: (a) network
overcapacity, as bandwidth demand, while continuing to grow, did not reach
levels sufficient to match the pace of network deployment; (b) constrained
capital markets; and (c) other factors, including the general inability of the
CLECs to obtain sufficient access to established telecommunications
infrastructures and consolidation among telecommunications carriers. All of the
above factors resulted in a decrease in the overall demand for new fiber optic
networks. In response, the carriers dramatically slowed their purchases of
systems from our customers, who in turned slowed purchases of components and
modules from our competitors and from us. Moreover, as their sales declined, our
customers moved to reduce their component and module inventory levels.
Consequently, the impact of the slowdown on our business is magnified, as we
face declining sales as the result of our customers' declining business and the
resulting adjustment to their inventory levels. Currently, we do not see a
reversal of the industry downturn.

     Nevertheless, we believe the industry will ultimately rebound from the
current downturn and grow in the future for several reasons: (a) internet
traffic, an important driver of network expansion, is expected to continue to
grow annually at a rate of between 50 percent and 100 percent, according to
industry research firm Ryan, Hankin & Kent; (b) this internet traffic is likely
to increasingly include content, such as full motion video (including,
ultimately, high definition video) and multichannel high quality audio, the
delivery of which will require as yet unavailable bandwidth; and (c) the
expansion of fiber optic network technology deeper into the networks that serve
both businesses and consumers. Concerning network expansion, fiber optic
networks are currently relegated primarily to long-haul, city-to-city, and
undersea applications, while new markets, in particular the intra-city, or
metro, markets, and, ultimately, neighborhood access, or so-called "fiber to the
curb," remain largely untapped. We believe these untapped markets represent a
significant future opportunity for our industry and for us. Moreover, we
anticipate that installation of metro fiber optic systems and, ultimately, fiber
to the curb, will increase demand for long haul capacity as overall network
traffic expands as users are provided and use greater bandwidth. Consequently,
we anticipate future continued telecommunications network development and
expansion both through the installation of new networks and through the upgrade
and expansion of existing networks. However, given our current lack of
visibility, we cannot provide any assurance as to the timing or extent of any
industry recovery or as to any increase in business or other benefits that we
may receive as a result thereof.

  GLOBAL REALIGNMENT PROGRAM

     In April 2001 we initiated our Global Realignment Program (the "Program"),
under which we are restructuring our business in response to the current market
environment and as part of our continuing program to integrate our operations.

     Specific actions taken under the Global Realignment Program include:

     - Reducing our workforce from approximately 29,000 employees to what we
       anticipate will be approximately 13,000 employees.

     - Eliminating overlapping product development programs and concentrating
       our key product development activities in specific global centers, with
       the goal to allocate our resources, both geographically and
       technologically, to those products and technologies that we believe will
       be the most important to our customers.

                                        2
<PAGE>   4

     - Consolidating our manufacturing, sales and administrative facilities,
       through building and site closures, from a total of approximately 6.3
       million square feet into approximately 4.4 million square feet. As of
       June 30, 2001, nine sites have been closed or scheduled for closure:
       Asheville, North Carolina; Bracknell, United Kingdom; Freehold, New
       Jersey; Hillend, United Kingdom; Oxford, United Kingdom; Richardson,
       Texas; Rochester, New York; Shunde, China and Taipei, Taiwan.

     - Integrating our sales force to, among other things, provide each of our
       customers with a single point of contact and, in the case of our larger
       customers, a dedicated sales team. We have largely completed this task.
       This year, we expect to expand our sales restructuring efforts to include
       our customer service program by creating technical and support centers to
       streamline customer interactions with product line managers. Ultimately,
       we intend that every customer have a single point of contact for order
       placement, status updates, billing and related questions. We also intend
       to exploit our global Oracle systems implementation to consolidate
       administrative functions and realize cost savings in all areas of product
       sales and support.

     The Global Realignment Program is expected to reduce our costs by
approximately $700 million annually after its complete implementation, which is
expected in fiscal 2002. We believe that the measures taken under the Program
will provide us the flexibility to meet our customers' current operating needs
without sacrificing our ability to expand our business and respond to future
increases in business levels.

     The Global Realignment Program represents our concerted efforts to respond
to the current demands of our industry. However, these efforts may be
inappropriate or insufficient. The Global Realignment Program may not be
successful in achieving the benefits expected, may be insufficient to align our
operations with customer demand and the changes affecting our industry, or may
be more costly or extensive than currently anticipated.

SPECIAL CHARGES

     We recorded significant special charges in the fourth quarter of 2001 of
$264.3 million, $510.6 million, and $59.8 million, related to restructuring
activities, inventory write-downs, and loss on excess inventory purchase
commitments, respectively. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details regarding
the nature of these charges.

     The downturn in telecommunications equipment and financial markets has
created unique circumstances with regard to the assessment of certain of our
long-lived assets. In the second half of fiscal 2001, we evaluated the carrying
value of certain long-lived assets and acquired equity investments, consisting
primarily of goodwill and other intangible assets and our investment in ADVA. We
were carrying a large amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. Because of our
significant acquisitions as accounting rules required that goodwill be recorded
based on stock prices at the time merger agreements are executed and announced,
and our merger agreements were negotiated and announced at times when market
valuations were considerably higher than at present.

     On April 24, 2001, we announced that we were evaluating the carrying value
of certain long-lived assets and that such evaluation may result in an
approximately $40 billion reduction in goodwill for the quarter ended March 31,
2001. On July 26, 2001, we announced that we were recording reductions of $38.7
billion and $6.1 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets for the
quarters ended March 31, 2001 and June 30, 2001, respectively. In addition, we
announced we were recording a $715 million charge for the quarter ended March
31, 2001 to write down the value of our investment in ADVA. We also announced at
that time that we would be conducting a further assessment of our long-lived
assets and that further adjustments to our fiscal 2001 results may result from
this assessment. We subsequently completed this review and it resulted in our
recording additional charges to reduce goodwill and other long-lived assets of
$1.1 billion and $4.2 billion during the quarters ended March 31, 2001 and June
30, 2001, respectively.

     The largest portion of our goodwill arose from the merger of JDS FITEL and
Uniphase and the subsequent acquisitions of SDL, E-TEK, and OCLI. The businesses
associated with these business combinations remain significant operations within
JDS Uniphase notwithstanding the current business downturn and change in market
valuations and each is forecasted to produce positive cash flows over future

                                        3
<PAGE>   5

periods. The goodwill resulted from our acquiring strategic companies when
valuations were high. However, while we purchased highly valued shares, we were
also in effect exchanging our highly valued shares at the same time so that none
of the transactions resulting in the creation of large goodwill amounts resulted
from a corresponding outlay of our cash. Had these transactions been done at
different times when valuations were lower with exactly the same share exchange
ratios, the goodwill amounts would have been considerably smaller. However,
waiting for lower valuations may have reduced their strategic value or otherwise
have allowed competitors to buy these companies thereby, eliminating an
opportunity to strengthen JDS Uniphase.

OUR PRODUCTS

     Our telecommunications systems customers focus on developing and installing
increasingly flexible, dynamic, efficient and robust high-capacity
communications networks. Our products help meet their needs by enabling higher
capacity through higher transmission speeds and the use of multichannnel signals
(known as wavelength division multiplexing or WDM), amplifying signals further
to reduce or eliminate the need for costly electrical signal regeneration, and
improving reliability and flexibility by offering additional provisioning and
monitoring functionality. Our products include a broad range of components,
modules and subsystems better enabling our customers to satisfy all of their
requirements through "one-stop" shopping at a single supplier. We strive to be
able to supply 100 percent of our customers' component, module and subsystem
needs through our existing, and continually expanding, product portfolio. In
this report, we focus on our more recent product offerings.

     We have two principal operating segments through which we develop and
manufacture our telecommunications products: (a) Amplification and Transmission;
and (b) Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM), Switching and Thin Film Filters.

AMPLIFICATION AND TRANSMISSION PRODUCTS

     Our amplification and transmission products send, receive and amplify
transmission signals in fiber optic systems. Products in this group include, but
are not limited to: (a) products that send signals (source lasers, transmitters,
modulators and wavelength lockers), (b) products that amplify signals
(amplifiers and pump lasers); (c) products that receive signals (photodetectors
and receivers); and (d) integrated products that transmit and detect signals
(transceivers and transponders).

     Source Lasers.  At the beginning of the network, a source laser powers the
initial signal that will be transmitted over the network. These source lasers
are characterized by their wavelength and power levels. Power, which is measured
in milliwatts, generally determines the ability of the source laser to transmit
over longer distances, with higher power source lasers enabling greater initial
transmission distances. A single source laser is required for each channel in a
WDM system.

     Transmitters.  We manufacture transmitters that combine source lasers,
modulators, wavelength lockers and electronic drivers so that the signal is
created and encoded in a single package.

     Modulators.  Modulators turn the source light on and off to encode and send
the information throughout the network. Modulation can be achieved either by
directly turning the laser light source on and off or externally by transmitting
or alternating a continuous source laser signal to achieve the same on and off
effect. Lower performance, shorter distance network systems are better suited
for direct modulation, while other systems are designed to utilize external
modulators to encode the information signal. We produce both direct and external
modulators used in fiberoptic telecommunications systems.

     Wavelength Lockers.  We supply wavelength lockers that are used to
stabilize the wavelength of lasers used in dense WDM transmission systems. These
lockers ensure that, over the lifetime of the system, the wavelength of a source
laser does not drift to interfere with an adjacent wavelength channel. The
locker operates by filtering and detecting a small amount of the source-laser
light and providing a stabilizing feedback signal to the laser.

     Amplifiers.  We supply both Erbium-doped fiber amplifier ("EDFA") optical
amplifiers and Raman amplification pumps. These products are designed to boost
the WDM optical signals without reconversion to
                                        4
<PAGE>   6

electrical signal and permit an optical signal to travel a greater distance
between electronic terminals and regenerators. These modules include multiple
passive and active components such as couplers, isolators, pump combiners and
pump lasers.

     Pump Lasers.  Pump lasers are used in optical amplifiers within networks to
regenerate the light signal that naturally suffers loss over distance within the
network. The advent of the optical amplifier in the early 1990s has permitted
the development of today's advanced fiberoptic networks by eliminating the need
within those networks to convert attenuated optical signals back into the
electrical domain to amplify these signals for continued transmission over long
distances. Optical amplifiers each contain from one to six pump lasers depending
on amplifier performance requirements. We supply 980-nanometer and
1480-nanometer pump lasers that are used in optical amplifiers. These pumps are
used to energize the erbium-doped fiber that comprises the amplifier. We also
supply 14xx-nanometer pump lasers that are utilized in Raman modules to create
gain in the transmission fiber, allowing the signal to travel farther without
electrical regeneration.

     Photodetectors and Receivers.  Receivers and photodetectors detect the
optical signals and convert them back into electronic signals. We supply optical
photodetectors and receivers for fiberoptic telecommunications and cable
television networks. Receivers are used in WDM products for each channel at both
sides of the fiberoptic link as wavelength translation is required.
Photodetectors are used throughout a network to monitor a variety of statistics
including power levels and channel count.

     Transceivers.  In addition to transmitters we also offer transceivers that
combine transmitters with receivers so that signals can be generated and encoded
or received and detected in a single package. These modules would be installed
at the beginning and end of a system.

     Cable Television Transmitters and Amplifiers.  In cable television networks
we supply externally modulated transmitters for trunk-line applications,
directly modulated transmitters for the distribution portion of cable television
networks, return-path lasers for interactive communications and transmitters
providing both analog and digital signals to the recipient.

     Telecommunications Specialty Modules and Instruments.  We supply a number
of specialty products for multi-gigabit fiberoptics systems. In particular, we
provide some of the transmit/receive instrumentation modules used to design and
test such systems. We also provide a variety of variable-bit rate receivers and
OC-48 transmit/receive products that operate over extended temperature ranges.

     We believe our customers are seeking greater integration and functionality
from their component vendors. By reducing the number of component integration
and manufacturing steps at the customer level, our customers can better focus
their time and resources on their core competencies of system architecture,
software design and related competitive advantages. Furthermore, we believe that
greater integration of components into single-box modules and subsystems will
reduce overall system costs. Consistent with this belief, in 2001 our new
product offerings in the Amplification and Transmission Products Group focused
on module level solutions, under which various individual components are
combined to provide increased functionality and standardization in a smaller
package. For example our transceiver modules generally combine a transmitter,
modulator, wavelength locker, photodetector and control electronics into a
single package. Examples of new 2001 products include:

     - 10 Gb/s (OC-192) and 2.5 Gb/s (OC-48) MSA Transceivers/Transponders for
       Extended, Long and Short Reach that feature integrated optical and
       electronic components for transmitting and receiving optical signals.

     - 10 Gb/s APD/PIN Receiver with automatic gain control (AGC) that improves
       signal reception in OC-192 systems.

     - C, L or C plus L Raman Amplification Pump that enables the transmission
       fiber to serve as a medium for providing signal gain.

     - High Power 360 mW 980nm Grating-Stabilized Pump Modules that are the
       next-generation high power pumps for EDFA designs.

                                        5
<PAGE>   7

     - C-Band Cooled Micro-Amplifier that provides simple optical amplification
       in a compact size, and is designed both for DWDM systems at points where
       signals are not multiplexed and for deployment in edge or access
       networks.

     - Uncooled 980 nm pump laser that for EDFAs offers the highest power in the
       industry (up to 200 mW), eliminates the need for additional components
       and electronics for temperature control, and uses only a fraction of the
       operating power required by standard, cooled pump lasers.

     - 40 Gb/s Small Signal Amplifier Driver that provides optical-to-electrical
       conversion at the point where the signal is received.

WDM, SWITCHING AND THIN FILM FILTER PRODUCTS

     Our WDM, switching and thin film products guide and route light signals
through a fiber optic network. These products include, but are not limited to:
add-drop multiplexers, isolators, thin film-based wavelength division
multiplexers, arrayed waveguides, fiber Bragg gratings, couplers, circulators,
optical switches, micro-electro-mechanical systems, gain flattening filters,
attenuators, and test instruments for optical components. Our non-telecom
products are also included in this segment.

     Add-Drop Multiplexers.  We supply add-drop multiplexers that allow systems
to add and drop optical signals without reconversion to an electrical signal.
For example, a system operating from San Francisco to New York can drop one
signal in Chicago and add another allowing for greater network flexibility. The
modules include multiple components such as switches, fiber Bragg gratings and
attenuators.

     Couplers, Filters, Isolators and Circulators.  Wavelength division
multiplexer couplers are used to split and combine signals in an optical
network. We supply WDM demultiplexers and access/bi-directional couplers. Many
of these products are based on thin-film filters, arrayed waveguide gratings,
fused fiber couplers, microlenses and/or special optical materials. The WDM
products are used after the source lasers and before the receivers.

     Isolator products are used to cause light signals in a network to propagate
in one direction within a network, but prevent that signal from returning in the
opposite direction. Circulators are similar to isolators in causing light in a
system to flow in only one direction, but are different in that circulators
incorporate multiple ports and use these multiple ports to perform a routing
function within the network. We supply various types of isolators, circulators
and we also produce tunable narrow-bandpass filters that are wavelength-tunable
by voltage control.

     Fiber Bragg Gratings.  We supply fiber Bragg gratings to separate and
filter multiple wavelengths of light propagating in the same fiber. These
gratings are generally used in signal monitoring, dispersion compensation and
gain flattening applications.

     Switches and Attenuators.  Optical switches are used to route and switch
signals to different destinations within networks. Attenuators are used to
adjust the power of the optical signal to be compatible with the optical
receivers within a network system.

     Consistent with our belief that our customers are seeking greater
integration and functionality in products provided by their component vendors,
our new product offerings in the WDM, Switching and Thin Film Group focused on
module level solutions in year 2001. Examples of new products include:

     - Tunable Dispersion Compensator is the first available product for
       per-channel, adjustable dispersion compensation for 40 Gb/s and 10 Gb/s
       ultra long-haul systems. Different colors of light travel along an
       optical fiber at slightly different speeds, and light signals that carry
       information always have some small variation in the color of the light.
       The dispersion compensation modules cancel out those differences in speed
       so that all the colors of the light signal arrive at their destination at
       the same time.

     - 50 and 100 GHz, 8 and 40 Channel V-MUX Integrated VOA Array/WDM
       Multiplexer that incorporates arrayed waveguide gratings for dense
       wavelength division multiplexing with temperature

                                        6
<PAGE>   8

       control and variable optical attenuators. Attenuators adjust the strength
       of the optical signals to make them equal so that they can be received
       cleanly.

     - MEMS Variable Optical Attenuator (VOA) is JDS Uniphase's first product
       based on Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) technology and offers
       high performance and fast response in an ultra-compact package. The MEMS
       VOA is well suited to equalize the strength of multiple optical signals
       and provide network power provisioning in optical amplifiers giving
       network designers more flexibility in managing bandwidth.

     - MOMS Series 1x2 Optical Switches, based on Micro-Opto-Mechanical Systems
       (MOMS) technology, these switches feature improved fiber management
       provided in an extremely small, compact package.

     - MEMS 1x2 and 2x2 Optical Switches that use MEMS technology to provide
       advanced switching speeds and improved optical performance bundled in a
       condensed, hermetically sealed package.

     - VCF Series of 100 GHz tunable filters that offer attractive solutions for
       selecting specific wavelengths to be dropped to metropolitan rings or for
       provisioning single wavelengths to end users as they grow.

     - Network Monitoring Module is an eight-channel power monitoring device
       that provides a digital output of channel power and a control output for
       power balancing, which helps identify any potential network problems and
       directs data flow accordingly to allow optimal network reliability.

     - Wavelength Monitoring Unit that measures optical power, optical
       signal-to-noise ratio (OSNR), and wavelength.

     - Optical Performance Monitor that has the highest accuracy for OSNR and
       also measures optical power and wavelength.

  TEST INSTRUMENTS

     Test instruments are used for testing and measuring optical components.
Many of the test instruments were originally developed for evaluating our own
optical components during design and production. In 2001, JDS Uniphase
introduced our Multiple Application Platform (MAP), the next generation platform
for its line of fiber optic test and measurement instrumentation. MAP provides a
wide range of test and measurement switches and attenuators in a modular and
upgradeable architecture suitable for R&D and manufacturing environments.

  NON-TELECOM PRODUCTS

     In addition to our core optical components and modules business, we also
manufacture and supply laser subsystems for a broad range of applications,
optical display and projection products used in computer displays and other
similar applications and light interference pigments used in security products
and decorative surface treatments.

     Our principal laser subsystem products consist of air-cooled argon gas
laser subsystems, which generally emit blue or green light, helium-neon lasers,
which generally emit red or green light, and solid state lasers, which generally
emit infrared, blue or green light. These systems consist of a combination of a
laser head containing the lasing medium, power supply, cabling and packaging,
including heat dissipation elements.

     Optical display and projection products control the brightness, contrast
and resolution of next generation display products including computer displays,
digital image projectors, flat panel displays, scanners and personal digital
assistants (commonly known as PDAs).

     Light interference pigments achieve unique color shifting characteristics
in security products and decorative surface treatments. Security related
products include bank notes, passports, credit cards, tax stamps and brand
protection labels. Decorative surface treatments include automotive paint,
cosmetics, electronic cases and apparel.

                                        7
<PAGE>   9

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

     We compete with numerous fiber optic component manufacturers, including
independent merchant suppliers and business units within vertically integrated
equipment manufacturers, including some of our customers. While each of our
product families has multiple competitors, we believe that we have the broadest
range of fiber optic components and modules available from one supplier in the
industry. We also believe that this range of products will position us well in
the industry as it continues to move towards module and subsystem level products
as we can better control the cost and quality of the components contained in
module and subsystem level products.

     While not a comprehensive list, our competitors in one or more product
lines include: Agere, Agilent, Alcatel Optronics, Avanex, Chorum, Ciena,
Corning, DiCon, Exfo, Fujitsu, Furukawa, Hitachi, New Focus, Nortel HPOCS,
Oplink, Sumitomo, Tellium, and Tyco.

     To save on costs and time, we believe that telecommunications system
suppliers generally seek fewer vendors for a greater variety of components and
integrated modules. A single vendor of multiple components or modules has the
ability to design these products to interact more effectively within a network
infrastructure and to optimize performance between them when installed in a
single network system. Given these factors, we believe that established system
suppliers will seek to reduce the level of their vertical integration at the
component and module level and to focus on the overall system design and
architecture of their products, which has historically been the primary means by
which those system suppliers have differentiated themselves from their
competitors. In this environment, we will continue to focus on selling customers
a portfolio of products that meets their system and cost requirements while
ensuring us a substantial portion of their component and module needs for the
particular system. Moreover, in the current industry uncertainty, we believe
that the communications equipment manufacturers will seek to further consolidate
their vendor relationships, strengthening ties with established industry
leaders, like us, and eliminate or reduce their dependence on smaller and less
secure suppliers. We believe our broad product portfolio, financial stability,
strongly funded research and development, and high qualification standards,
position us increasingly to compete to be the supplier of choice to these
companies now and in the future.

COMPANY STRATEGY

     Our mission has been and continues to be to maintain and expand our
position as the leading merchant supplier of advanced components, modules and
subsystems to the telecommunications and cable television networking
marketplace. The key elements of our business strategy are as follows:

     - Maintain Close Customer Relationships.  We work closely with our
       customers from initial product design through to manufacturing and
       delivery. We strive to engage with our customers at the early stages of
       system development to provide them with all of their component and module
       needs through customized design and manufacturing, aligned with the
       requirements of their systems. Maintaining and strengthening these
       relationships is particularly critical during the current industry
       downturn. Accordingly, reorganizing and focusing our sales, customer
       support and product development efforts to strengthen and streamline our
       customer relationships is a fundamental aspect of our Global Realignment
       Program.

     - Maintain Technology Leadership and High Product Reliability.  We consider
       our technology and product leadership to be critical to our continued
       success. We offer the broadest range of components and modules to
       telecommunications system providers, and we expect to continue this
       leadership. To do so, we must continue to develop new products, offering
       increased efficiency, performance and functionality, and with higher
       levels of integration, to our customers. To this end, notwithstanding the
       current economic downturn, we allocate, and expect to continue to
       allocate, significant funding and management emphasis to our product and
       technology development programs. Moreover, by eliminating overlapping R&D
       programs and concentrating our key product development activities in
       specific global centers, under our Global Realignment Program, we expect
       to conduct these programs with greater efficiency and focus. We believe
       that focused, judicious, and vigorous product development

                                        8
<PAGE>   10

       programs are critical to maintaining and strengthening our leadership in
       current and future industry climates.

     - Offer a Comprehensive Portfolio of Fiber Optic Components and
       Modules.  We endeavor to be the preferred, comprehensive, source for an
       increasingly greater variety of optical components and modules, for both
       the established network system providers as well as the emerging system
       providers. We believe our customers will continue to reduce the number of
       suppliers of components and modules for their systems. We believe this
       trend will accelerate because of the current economic downturn and the
       need for our customers to build relationships with financially secure,
       comprehensive solution providers. Accordingly, we strive to provide a
       comprehensive solution to our customers' component and module needs.

     - Develop Modules and Subsystems.  Our customers continue to seek an
       increase in the level of integration in the optoelectronic and optical
       products they purchase from their suppliers. Moreover, we believe our
       customers' ability to offer robust, dynamic high bandwidth systems to
       their carrier customers on a cost-effective basis will be integral to an
       industry recovery. We believe that greater integration of components into
       single-box modules and subsystems will reduce overall system costs.
       Furthermore, we believe reductions in the number of component integration
       and manufacturing steps required to be performed by our customers enable
       our customers to better focus their resources on aspects of their
       business that build on their core system architecture and maintenance
       competencies and related competitive advantages over other system
       providers. To this end, we expect to continue to devote substantial
       resources and effort to develop and manufacture increasingly integrated
       module and subsystem-level solutions for our customers. We believe that
       our broad core competencies in optical components, together with our
       strong customer relationships, will enable us to successfully develop and
       manufacture products offering these levels of integration and
       functionality to our customers.

     - Structure Our Manufacturing Capabilities for Maximum Efficiency and
       Quality.  Prior to the current industry downturn, in response to
       increasing customer demand, we expanded our worldwide manufacturing
       capacity through a number of initiatives, including facility expansion,
       mergers and acquisitions, enhanced manufacturing efficiencies and yield
       improvements, automation, and outsourcing. In the current economic
       environment, we realize the need to shift our manufacturing focus from
       capacity expansion to efficiency, while continuing to maintain product
       quality and the ability to expand during any future business upturn.
       Consequently, a critical goal of our Global Realignment Program is to
       reorganize and consolidate our manufacturing operations into those
       facilities best suited economically, technologically and geographically,
       to manufacture our products while consistently meeting our and our
       customers' quality standards. When completed, we expect production to be
       centralized in designated competency centers in order to enhance
       productivity and streamline operations. In connection with the Global
       Realignment Program, we are moving the manufacturing of many of our
       established products to our facility in Shenzen, Peoples Republic of
       China. In addition to our efforts under the Global Realignment Program,
       we continue our efforts to increase manufacturing efficiency through
       automation and outsourcing, where partners may help remove production
       bottlenecks and create a more cost-effective and scalable process.

     - Seek Complementary Mergers and Acquisitions.  The telecommunications
       industry is experiencing rapid consolidation and realignment because of
       globalization, deregulation and rapidly changing competitive technologies
       such as fiber optics for cable television, wireless communications and
       the Internet. We expect this consolidation and realignment trend to
       increase as the result of the current industry downturn. We have grown in
       part by acquiring or merging with telecommunications component and module
       businesses and may continue to do so in the future. We frequently
       evaluate strategic opportunities and intend in the future to pursue
       acquisitions of additional products, technologies and businesses
       actively.

     Although we expect to be successful in implementing our strategy, our
statements about our strategy are necessarily forward looking. We cannot predict
the future and many factors, some within and some outside of

                                        9
<PAGE>   11

our control, may cause us to fail to achieve one or more of our strategic goals.
Some of these factors are discussed under "Risk Factors" below.

SALES AND MARKETING

     We market our telecommunications components to our customers primarily
through our direct sales force in North America, Asia, Europe and Australia. In
addition, we currently sell some of our products through distributors and
manufacturers' representatives in North America, Europe, Asia, South America,
the Middle East and Australia. Selected customers for telecommunications
components include:

<Table>
<S>                   <C>                        <C>
Alcatel               Corvis                     Nortel
Agilent               Juniper Networks           ONI Systems
Ciena                 Lucent                     Siemens
Cisco                 Marconi                    Sycamore
Corning               Motorola                   Tyco
</Table>

     Subsequent to our acquisition of SDL and continuing with our Global
Realignment Program, we are integrating our sales force to, among other things,
provide each of our customers with a single point of contact, who is or will be
the dedicated account specialist for that customer. In addition, each of our
larger customers has or will have a dedicated sales team. We have largely
completed this task. Ultimately, it is our intention that every customer has a
single point of contact for order placement, status updates, billing and related
questions.

     We market our non-telecommunication products through our specialized
non-telecommunications direct sales force and worldwide network of
representatives and distributors.

CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND SERVICE

     We believe that a high level of customer support is necessary to
successfully develop and maintain long-term relationships with all of our
customers. With respect to our core telecommunications businesses, each
relationship begins at the design-in phase and is maintained as customer needs
change and evolve. We provide direct service and support to our
telecommunications customers through our offices in North America, Asia and
Europe. This year we expect to establish technical and support centers to
streamline customer interactions with product line managers. We also intend that
our customer service unit exploit our global Oracle implementation to
consolidate administrative functions and realize cost savings.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     During 2001, 2000 and 1999, we incurred research and development
expenditures of $325.9 million, $113.4 million and $27.0 million, respectively.

     We are currently developing new and enhanced telecommunications components,
modules and subsystems. Once the design of a product is complete, our
engineering efforts shift to enhance both the performance of that product and
our ability to manufacture it at higher volumes and at lower cost. For the
telecommunications marketplace, we are directing research and development to
strategically important areas: tunable compensation, wavelength switching, and
next-generation amplification and transponder products. We continue to develop
packaging technology for a number of our optoelectronic components so as to
enable us to supply more integrated and lower cost packaged modules to our
customers.

     In response to the recent economic downturn, we are cutting the dollar
amount of our research and development expenditures for 2002. However, we expect
such expenditures will increase as a percentage of net sales during the same
period. In addition, as part of our Global Realignment Program, we are
eliminating overlapping product development programs and concentrating our key
product development activities in specific global centers. The goal is to
allocate our resources both geographically and technologically to products and
technologies that we believe will be most important to our customers.

                                        10
<PAGE>   12

MANUFACTURING

     The following table sets forth our main manufacturing locations and the
primary products manufactured at each location as at June 30, 2001 (except as
indicated):

<Table>
<Caption>
LOCATION                                                            PRODUCTS
--------                                                            --------
<S>                                         <C>
NORTH AMERICA
Canada, British Columbia, Victoria*.......  980-nm and 14xx-nm terrestrial pump packaging
Canada, Ontario, Ottawa...................  Optical amplifiers, wavelength division multiplexers,
                                            couplers, circulators, switches, tunable filters, EDFAs,
                                            isolators and test instruments for telecommunications,
                                            waveguides and attenuators
Canada, Ontario, Toronto..................  Optical performance monitors and dispersion compensation
                                            modules
USA, California, Manteca..................  Laser subsystems
USA, California, San Jose.................  Add-drop multiplexer modules, wavelength division
                                            multiplexers, Raman amplifiers, 980-nm pump lasers,
                                            couplers, circulators, switches, isolators, optical
                                            amplifiers and laser subsystems
USA, California, Santa Rosa...............  Thin film filters, optical display and projection
                                            products and light interference pigments
USA, Connecticut, Bloomfield..............  Lithium niobate modulators and wavelength lockers
USA, Florida, Melbourne...................  Transponder modules (OC-48 and OC-768) and automation
                                            equipment
USA, Massachusetts, Norwood...............  Specialty fiber
USA, New Jersey, Eatontown................  EDFA optical amplifiers
USA, New Jersey, Piscataway...............  Electronic drivers for telecommunications
USA, New Jersey, Trenton..................  Optical photodetectors and receivers
USA, New York, Rochester*.................  Display optics
USA, North Carolina, Raleigh-Durham.......  Micro-electro-mechanical-systems
USA, Ohio, Columbus.......................  Arrayed waveguide grating
USA, Pennsylvania, Horsham................  Transponder modules (OC-192)
USA, Texas, Richardson*...................  Optical performance monitors
EUROPE
Germany, Waghaeusel-Kirrlach..............  Waveguide splitters and splitter shelves
Netherlands, Eindhoven....................  Source lasers, semiconductor amplifiers, and
                                            semiconductor optical amplifiers
Switzerland, Zurich**.....................  980-nm pump lasers
United Kingdom, Bracknell*................  Optical performance monitors
United Kingdom, Hillend*..................  Thin film filters
United Kingdom, Oxford*...................  Optical subassemblies
United Kingdom, Plymouth*.................  Advanced laser packaging
United Kingdom, Torquay...................  Fused fiber components
United Kingdom, Witham*...................  Integrated RZ and OC-768 modulators
REST OF WORLD
Australia, Sydney.........................  Fiber Bragg gratings
China, Fuzhou.............................  YVO4 and lithium niobate crystals
China, Shenzhen...........................  Isolators and wavelength division multiplexers
China, Shunde*............................  Isolators and wavelength division multiplexers
Taiwan, Taipei*...........................  Couplers and isolators
</Table>

---------------

 * These facilities have currently been identified for closure in 2002 under the
   Global Realignment Program.

** The Zurich facility was sold to Nortel Networks on February 13, 2001.

                                        11
<PAGE>   13

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

     Our policy is to establish at least two sources of supply for materials
whenever possible, although we do have some sole source supply arrangements. The
loss or interruption of such arrangements could have an impact on our ability to
deliver certain products on a timely basis.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

     Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products include
patents, trade secrets and trademarks. Because of the rapidly changing
technology and a broad distribution of patents in the optoelectronics industry,
our intention is not to rely primarily on intellectual property rights to
protect or establish our market position. We do not intend to broadly license
our intellectual property rights unless we can obtain adequate consideration or
enter into acceptable patent cross-license agreements. We held over 600 U.S.
patents and numerous foreign patents at June 30, 2001.

MINORITY INVESTMENTS

     We make minority investments in companies that build technology or provide
services that are complementary to our products. By investing in new ventures,
we strengthen our partnerships with such companies. Together with our partners,
we believe we can offer more complete solutions to the market.

BACKLOG

     Backlog consists of written purchase orders for products for which we have
assigned shipment dates within the following 12 months. As of June 30, 2001, our
backlog was $677 million as compared to a backlog of $931 million at June 30,
2000. Orders in backlog are firm, but are subject to cancellation or
rescheduling by the customer. Because of possible changes in product delivery
schedules and cancellation of product orders and because our sales will often
reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, our
backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for
any succeeding period. Certain of our customers have adopted "just in time"
techniques with respect to ordering the our products, which will cause us to
have shorter lead times for providing products to some customers. Such shorter
lead times are likely to result in lower backlog relative to sales in future
periods.

     As a consequence of the industry downturn subsequent to June 30, 2001, we
experienced cancellations of some orders included in our June 30, 2001 backlog.
Moreover, we expect our backlog for future periods to be lower than at June 30,
2001. For these reasons, our ability to translate our current backlog (including
the $677 million of backlog at June 30, 2001) into sales has been and is likely
to continue to be adversely affected by order cancellation and rescheduling,
which were significant in recent quarters. Consequently, during this period of
industry uncertainty, we caution that, our announced backlog may not be a
reliable indicator of future sales or the level of future orders.

EMPLOYEES

     At June 30, 2001, we had a total of 19,948 full-time employees worldwide,
including 2,350 in research, development and engineering, 622 in sales,
marketing and service, 14,979 in manufacturing, and 1,997 in general management,
administration and finance. On July 26, 2001, we announced our intention to
reduce our global work force to approximately 13,000 employees through the
Global Realignment Program. As of June 30, 2001, approximately 6,100 employees
had been terminated as part of the Program. Of the total work force reduction,
the majority was in manufacturing.

     Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining organization
except for our Netherlands and Germany operations. We have never experienced a
work stoppage, slowdown or strike. Notwithstanding the current downturn, we
consider our employee relations to be generally good.

                                        12
<PAGE>   14

RISK FACTORS

  OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE FLUCTUATE SUBSTANTIALLY

     Operating results for future periods are never perfectly predictable even
in the most certain of economic times, and we expect to continue to experience
fluctuations in our quarterly results and in our guidance, when provided, for
financial performance in future periods. These fluctuations, which in the future
may be significant, could cause substantial variability in the market price of
our stock. In addition to those concerns discussed below, all of the concerns we
have discussed under "Risk Factors" could affect our operating results from time
to time.

  Our Operating Results and Stock Price Are Affected by Fluctuations in Our
  Customers' Businesses

     Our business is dependent upon product sales to telecommunications network
system providers, who in turn are dependent for their business upon orders for
fiber optic systems from telecommunications carriers. Any downturn in the
business of any of these parties affects us. Moreover, our sales often reflect
orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, which makes our
sales vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in customer demand and difficult to
predict. In general, customer orders may be cancelled, modified or rescheduled
after receipt. Consequently, the timing of these orders and any subsequent
cancellation, modification or rescheduling of these orders have affected and
will in the future affect our results of operations from quarter to quarter.
Also, as our customers typically order in large quantities, any subsequent
cancellation, modification or rescheduling of an individual order may alone
affect our results of operations.

  We Are Experiencing Decreased Sales and Increased Difficulty in Predicting
  Future Operating Results

     As the result of currently unfavorable economic and market conditions, (a)
our sales are declining, (b) we are unable to predict future sales accurately,
and (c) we are currently unable to provide guidance for future financial
performance. The conditions contributing to this difficulty include:

     - uncertainty regarding the capital spending plans of the major
       telecommunications carriers, upon whom our customers and, ultimately we,
       depend for sales;

     - the telecommunications carriers' current limited access to the capital
       required for expansion;

     - our customers decreasing inventory levels, which, in turn, reduces our
       sales;

     - lower near term sales visibility; and

     - general market and economic uncertainty.

     Based on these and other factors, many of our major customers have reduced,
modified, cancelled or rescheduled orders for our products and have expressed
uncertainty as to their future requirements. As a result, we currently
anticipate that our net sales in future periods may decline. In addition, our
ability to meet financial expectations for future periods may be harmed.

  We Have Incurred, and May in the Future Incur, Inventory-Related Charges, the
  Amounts of Which Are Difficult to Predict Accurately

     As a result of the business downturn we have incurred charges to align our
inventory with actual customer requirements over the near term. We use a rolling
six-month forecast based on anticipated product orders, product order history,
forecasts, and backlog to assess our inventory requirements. As discussed above,
our ability to forecast our customers' needs for our products in the current
economic environment is very limited. We have incurred, and may in the future
incur, significant inventory-related charges. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we
incurred charges related to inventory write-downs and losses on excess inventory
purchase commitments of $510.6 million, and $59.8 million, respectively. We may
incur significant similar charges in future periods. Moreover, because of our
current difficulty in forecasting sales, we may in the future revise our
previous forecasts. While we believe, based on current information, that the
inventory-related charges

                                        13
<PAGE>   15

recorded in 2001, are appropriate, subsequent changes to our forecast may
indicate that these charges were insufficient or even excessive.

     As a result of these and other factors, our stock price has declined
substantially over the past year. Despite this decline, the market price of our
stock and the stocks of many of the other companies in the optical components,
modules and systems industries continue to trade at high multiples of earnings.
An outgrowth of these multiples and market volatility is the significant
vulnerability of our stock price and the stock prices of our customers and
competitors to any actual or perceived fluctuation in the strength of the
markets we serve, no matter how minor in actual or perceived consequence.
Consequently, these multiples and, hence, market prices may not be sustainable.
These broad market and industry factors have caused and may in the future cause
the market price of our stock to decline, regardless of our actual operating
performance or the operating performance of our customers.

  IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OR ANTICIPATE OUR FUTURE GROWTH, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER

     The optical networking business has historically grown, at times rapidly,
and we have grown accordingly. We have made and, although we are currently in an
industry downturn, expect to continue to make significant investments to enable
our future growth through, among other things, internal expansion programs,
internal product development and acquisitions and other strategic relationships.
If we fail to effectively manage or anticipate our future growth effectively,
particularly during periods of industry decline, such as these, our business
will suffer.

  Difficulties Associated With Integrating Our Acquired Businesses Could Harm
  Our Overall Business Operations

     Our growth strategy includes acquisitions of other companies, technologies
and product lines to complement our internally developed products. In fact, we
are the product of several substantial acquisitions, including, among others,
JDS FITEL on June 30, 1999, OCLI on February 4, 2000, E-TEK on June 30, 2000 and
SDL on February 13, 2001. We expect to continue this strategy. Critical to the
success of this strategy and, ultimately, our business as a whole, is the
ordered, efficient integration of acquired businesses into our organization. If
our integration efforts are unsuccessful, our businesses will suffer. Successful
integration depends upon:

     - our ability to integrate the manufacture, sale and marketing of the
       products of the businesses acquired with our existing products;

     - our ability to complete product development programs and consolidate
       research and development efforts;

     - our ability to retain key personnel of the acquired business and
       effectively organize the acquired business' personnel with our own;

     - our ability to consolidate and reorganize operations with those of the
       acquired business; and

     - our ability to expand our information technology systems (including
       accounting and financial systems, management controls and procedures).

Our integration efforts, which are ongoing, may not be successful and may result
in unanticipated operations problems, expenses and liabilities and the diversion
of management attention.

  Our Acquisition Strategy is Costly

     Our acquisition strategy is costly. For example, we have incurred direct
costs associated with the combination of Uniphase and JDS FITEL of $12.0
million, incurred $8.2 million associated with the acquisition of OCLI, incurred
$32.3 million associated with the acquisition of E-TEK and incurred $44.6
associated with the acquisition of SDL. In addition, we paid certain SDL
executives $300.9 million in consideration of their agreement to amend their
change of control agreements and enter into non-compete agreements with us. We
may incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect
additional
                                        14
<PAGE>   16

costs associated with these and other combinations and acquisitions, which will
be expensed as incurred. Moreover, to the extent an acquired business does not
perform as expected, we have and may continue to incur substantial additional
unforeseen costs to develop, restructure or dispose of such business.
Nonperforming or underperforming acquired businesses may also divert management
attention, dilute the value of our common stock and exchangeable shares and
weaken our financial condition.

  Our Global Realignment Program May Not Be Successful

     As part of our continuing integration efforts and in response to the
current economic slowdown, we recently commenced a Global Realignment Program,
under which we are, among other things:

     - consolidating our product development programs and eliminating
       overlapping programs,

     - consolidating our manufacturing of several products from multiple sites
       into specific locations around the world, and

     - realigning our sales organization to offer customers a single point of
       contact within the company, and creating regional and technical centers
       to streamline customer interactions with product line managers.

     Implementation of the Global Realignment Program involves reductions in our
workforce and facilities and, in certain instances, the relocation of products,
technologies and personnel. We will incur significant expenses to implement the
program and we expect to realize significant future cost savings as a result. As
with our other integration efforts, the Global Realignment Program may not be
successful in achieving the expected benefits within the expected timeframes,
may be insufficient to align our operations with customer demand and the changes
affecting our industry, may disrupt our operations, or may be more costly than
currently anticipated.

  If We Fail to Commercialize New Product Lines Our Business Will Suffer

     We intend to continue to develop new product lines and to improve existing
product lines to meet our customers' diverse and changing needs. However, our
development of new products and improvements to existing products may not be
successful, as:

     - we may fail to complete the development of a new product or product
       improvement; or

     - our customers may not purchase the new product or improved product
       because, among other things, the product is too expensive, is defective
       in design, manufacture or performance, or is uncompetitive, or because
       the product has been superceded by another product or technology.

Nonetheless, if we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and
improvements to existing products, our business will suffer.

     Furthermore, new products require increased sales and marketing, customer
support and administrative functions to support anticipated increased levels of
operations. We may not be successful in creating this infrastructure nor may we
realize any increased sales and operations to offset the additional expenses
resulting from this increased infrastructure. In connection with our recent
acquisitions, we have incurred expenses in anticipation of developing and
selling new products. Our operations may not achieve levels sufficient to
justify the increased expense levels associated with these new businesses.

  Any Failure of Our Information Technology Infrastructure Could Harm Our
  Business

     We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information
technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and
update this infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs. In
connection with our growth, we are constantly updating our current information
technology infrastructure and expect to incur significant costs and expend
significant management and other resources relating to our upgrade efforts.
Among other things, we are currently unifying our manufacturing, accounting,
sales and human resource data systems using an Oracle platform and expanding and
upgrading our networks

                                        15
<PAGE>   17

and integrating our voice communications systems. Any failure to manage, expand
and update our information technology infrastructure could hurt our business.

  WE HAVE MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCT QUALITY CONCERNS

  If We Do Not Achieve Acceptable Manufacturing Volumes, Yields and Costs, Our
  Business Will Suffer

     Our success depends upon our ability to timely deliver products to our
customers at acceptable volume and cost levels. The manufacture of our products
involves highly complex and precise processes, requiring production in highly
controlled and clean environments. Changes in our manufacturing processes or
those of our suppliers, or their inadvertent use of defective or contaminated
materials, could significantly hurt our ability to meet our customers' product
volume and quality needs. Moreover, in some cases, existing manufacturing
techniques, which involve substantial manual labor, may not achieve the volume
or cost targets of our customers. In these cases, we will need to develop new
manufacturing processes and techniques, which are anticipated to involve higher
levels of automation, to achieve these targets, and we will need to undertake
other efforts to reduce manufacturing costs. Currently, we are devoting
significant funds and other resources to (a) the development of advanced
manufacturing techniques to improve product volumes and yields and reduce costs,
and (b) realign some of our product manufacturing to locations offering optimal
labor costs. These efforts may not be successful. If we fail to achieve
acceptable manufacturing yields, volumes and costs, our business will be harmed.

  If Our Customers Do Not Qualify Our Manufacturing Lines for Volume Shipments,
  Our Operating Results Could Suffer

     Customers will not purchase any of our products, other than limited numbers
of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for the
product. Each new manufacturing line must go through varying levels of
qualification with our customers. Moreover, under our Global Realignment Program
we are consolidating our worldwide manufacturing operations. Among other things,
we will be moving the manufacturing of some of our products to other facilities.
The manufacturing lines for these products at the consolidated facilities must
undergo qualification with our customers before commercial manufacture of these
products can recommence. The qualification process, whether for new products or
in connection with the relocation of manufacturing of current products,
determines whether the manufacturing line achieves the customers' quality,
performance and reliability standards. Delays in qualification can cause a
product to be dropped from a long-term supply program and result in significant
lost sales opportunities over the term of that program. We may experience delays
in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing lines and, as a
consequence, our operating results and customer relationships would be harmed.

  If Our Products Fail to Perform, Our Business Will Suffer

     Our business depends on our producing excellent products of consistently
high quality. To this end, our products are rigorously tested for quality both
by us and our customers. Nevertheless, our products are highly complex and our
customers testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely
and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others,
the occurrence of performance problems unforeseeable in testing), our products
may fail to perform as expected. Failures could result from faulty design or
problems in manufacturing. In either case, we could incur significant costs to
repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such
failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the
past and remain exposed to such failures, as our products are widely deployed
throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In
some cases, product redesigns or additional capital equipment may be required to
correct a defect. In addition, any significant or systemic product failure could
result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well
as customer relations problems.

                                        16
<PAGE>   18

  ACCOUNTING TREATMENT OF OUR ACQUISITIONS HAS IMPACTED OUR OPERATING RESULTS

  Our Operating Results Are Adversely Impacted by Purchase Accounting Treatment,
  Primarily Due to the Impact of Amortization of and Other Reductions in the
  Carrying Value of Goodwill and Other Intangibles Originating From Acquisitions

     Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States through
June 30, 2001, we accounted for most of our acquisitions using the purchase
method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, we recorded the market value of
our common shares and the exchangeable shares of our subsidiary, JDS Uniphase
Canada Ltd., issued in connection with acquisitions and the fair value of the
stock options assumed and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of
acquiring these entities. That cost is allocated to the individual assets
acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible
assets such as in-process research and development, acquired technology,
acquired trademarks and trade names and acquired workforce, based on their
respective fair values. We allocated the excess of the purchase cost over the
fair value of the net identifiable assets to goodwill.

     The impact of purchase accounting on our operating results is significant.
For fiscal 2001, we recorded an acquisition related amortization expense of
$5,387.0 million.

     Additionally, we also incur other purchase accounting related costs and
expenses in the period a particular transaction closes to reflect purchase
accounting adjustments adversely affecting gross profit and the costs of
integrating new businesses or curtailing overlapping operations. Purchase
accounting treatment of our mergers and acquisitions, at least through the end
of 2002 at which time new accounting rules will apply, will result in a net
loss, which will have a material and adverse effect on our results of
operations.

     The downturn in telecommunications equipment and financial markets created
unique circumstances with regard to the assessment of certain of our long-lived
assets and investments. In the second half of fiscal 2001, we evaluated the
carrying value of certain long-lived assets and acquired equity investments,
consisting primarily of goodwill and other intangible assets and our investment
in ADVA. We were carrying a large amount of goodwill on our balance sheet
because of our significant acquisitions as accounting rules require that
goodwill be recorded based on stock prices at the time merger agreements are
executed and announced, and our merger agreements were negotiated and announced
at times when market valuations were considerably higher than at present.

     On April 24, 2001, we announced that we were evaluating the carrying value
of certain long-lived assets and that such evaluation may result in an
approximately $40 billion reduction in goodwill for the quarter ended March 31,
2001. On July 26, 2001, we announced that we were recording reductions of $38.7
billion and $6.1 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets for the
quarters ended March 31, 2001 and June 30, 2001, respectively. In addition, we
announced we were recording a $715 million charge for the quarter ended March
31, 2001 to write down the value of our investment in ADVA. We also announced at
that time that we would be conducting a further assessment of our long-lived
assets and that further adjustments to our fiscal 2001 results may result from
this assessment. We subsequently completed this review and it resulted in our
recording additional charges to reduce goodwill and other long-lived assets of
$1.1 billion and $4.2 billion during the quarters ended March 31, 2001 and June
30, 2001, respectively.

     We also reclassified $300.9 million in amounts paid to certain SDL
executives in connection with the acquisition which were previously recorded as
acquisition costs in the quarter ended March 31, 2001 as a one-time charge for
that period. We also recorded a $715 million charge for that period to write
down the value of our equity investment in ADVA.

     The largest portion of our goodwill arose from the merger of JDS FITEL and
Uniphase and the subsequent acquisition of SDL, E-TEK, and OCLI. The businesses
associated with these business combinations remain significant operations within
JDS Uniphase notwithstanding the current business downturn and change in market
valuations and each is forecasted to produce positive cash flows over future
periods. The goodwill resulted from our acquiring strategic companies when
valuations were high. However, while we purchased highly valued shares, we were
also in effect exchanging our highly valued shares at the same time so that none
of the transactions resulting in creation of large goodwill balances resulted
from a corresponding
                                        17
<PAGE>   19

outlay of our cash. Had these transactions been done at different times when
valuations were lower with exactly the same share exchange ratios, the goodwill
amounts would have been considerably smaller. However, waiting for lower
valuations may have reduced their strategic value or otherwise have allowed
competitors to buy these companies thereby, eliminating an opportunity to
strengthen JDS Uniphase.

  OUR SALES ARE DEPENDENT UPON A FEW KEY CUSTOMERS

     Our customer base is highly concentrated. Historically, orders from a
relatively limited number of optical system providers accounted for a
substantial portion of our net sales. During 2001, three customers, Nortel
Networks Corporation, Alcatel, and Lucent Technologies, Inc., accounted for 14
percent, 12 percent and 10 percent of net sales, respectively. During 2000,
Lucent Technologies, Inc., and Nortel Networks Corporation, accounted for 21
percent and 15 percent of net sales, respectively. We expect that, for the
foreseeable future, sales to a limited number of customers will continue to
account for a high percentage of our net sales. Sales to any single customer may
vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If current customers do not continue
to place orders, we may not be able to replace these orders with new orders from
new customers. In the telecommunications industry, our customers evaluate our
products and competitive products for deployment in their telecommunications
systems. Our failure to be selected by a customer for particular system projects
can significantly impact our business, operating results and financial
condition. Similarly, even if our customers select us, the failure of those
customers to be selected as the primary suppliers for an overall system
installation could adversely affect us. Such fluctuations could materially harm
our business.

  INTERRUPTIONS AFFECTING OUR KEY SUPPLIERS COULD DISRUPT PRODUCTION, COMPROMISE
  OUR PRODUCT QUALITY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES

     We obtain various components included in the manufacture of our products
from single or limited source suppliers. A disruption or loss of supplies from
these companies or a price increase for these components would materially harm
our results of operations, product quality and customer relationships. In
addition, we currently utilize a sole source for the crystal semiconductor chip
sets incorporated in our solid state microlaser products for use in our solid
state laser products from Opto Power Corporation and GEC. We obtain lithium
niobate wafers, gallium arsenide wafers, specialized fiber components and some
lasers used in our telecommunications products primarily from Crystal
Technology, Inc., Fujikura, Ltd., Philips Key Modules and Sumitomo,
respectively. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with any of
these suppliers, and these components may not in the future be available in the
quantities required by us, if at all.

  ANY FAILURE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE IN OUR INDUSTRY WOULD HARM OUR OPERATING
  RESULTS

  If Our Business Operations Are Insufficient to Remain Competitive in Our
  Industry, Our Operating Results Could Suffer

     The telecommunications markets in which we sell our products are highly
competitive and characterized by rapidly changing and converging technologies.
We face intense competition from established competitors and the threat of
future competition from new and emerging companies in all aspects of our
business. Among our current competitors are our customers, who are vertically
integrated and either manufacture and/or are capable of manufacturing some or
all of the products we sell to them. In addition to our current competitors, we
expect that new competitors providing niche, and potentially broad, product
solutions will increase in the future. While the current economic downturn has
reduced the overall level of business in our industry, the competition for that
business remains fierce. To remain competitive in both the current and future
business climates, we believe we must maintain a substantial commitment to
focused research and development, improve the efficiency of our manufacturing
operations, and streamline our marketing and sales efforts, and attendant
customer service and support. Under our Global Realignment Program, we have
ongoing initiatives in each of these areas. However, our efforts to remain
competitive, under the Global Realignment Program and otherwise, may be
unsuccessful. Among other things, we may not have sufficient resources to
continue to make the investments necessary to remain competitive, or we may not
make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. In addition,
notwithstanding our efforts, technological changes, manufactur-

                                        18
<PAGE>   20

ing efficiencies or development efforts by our competitors may render our
products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive.

  Our Industry is Consolidating

     Our industry is consolidating and we believe it will continue to
consolidate in the future as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their
market positions in an evolving industry. We anticipate that consolidation will
accelerate as the result of the current industry downturn. We believe that
industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able
to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more
variability in operating results as we compete to be a single vendor solution
and could hurt our business.

  Fiber Optic Component Average Selling Prices Are Declining

     Prices for telecommunications fiber optic products generally decline over
time as new and more efficient components and modules, with increased
functionality, are developed, manufacturing processes improve and competition
increases. The current economic downturn has exacerbated the general trend, as
declining sales have forced telecommunications carriers and their systems
provider suppliers to reduce costs, leading to increasing pricing pressure on us
and our competitors. Weakened demand for optical components and modules has
created an oversupply of these products, which has increased pressure on us to
reduce our prices. To the extent this oversupply is not corrected in subsequent
periods, we anticipate continuing pricing pressure. Moreover, currently, fiber
optic networks have significant excess capacity. Industry participants disagree
as to the amount of this excess capacity. However, to the extent that there is
significant overcapacity and this capacity is not profitably utilized in
subsequent periods, we expect to face additional pricing pressure.

     In response to pricing pressure, we must continue to (1) timely develop and
introduce new products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher
selling prices, (2) increase the efficiency of our manufacturing operations, and
(3) generally reduce costs. Failure to do so could cause our net sales and gross
margins to decline, which would harm our business.

  If We Fail to Attract and Retain Key Personnel, Our Business Could Suffer

     Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key
personnel. In addition, our research and development efforts depend on hiring
and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for highly skilled engineers is
extremely intense, and, the current economic downturn notwithstanding, we
continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many
areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at
compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary
structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our
executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, each of
whom would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain a key person life
insurance policy on our chief executive officer or any other officer. The loss
of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel or the
inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could delay product
development cycles or otherwise materially harm our business.

  WE FACE RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND SALES

     Our customers are located throughout the world. In addition, we have
significant offshore operations, including manufacturing facilities, sales
personnel and customer support operations. Our operations outside North America
include facilities in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Australia
and the People's Republic of China.

     Our international presence exposes us to risks not faced by wholly North
American companies. Specifically, we face the following risks, among others:

     - our ability to comply with the customs, import/export and other trade
       compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together
       with any unexpected changes in such regulations;

     - tariffs and other trade barriers;
                                        19
<PAGE>   21

     - political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets,
       particularly in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and
       research facilities;

     - difficulties in staffing and management;

     - language and cultural barriers;

     - seasonal reductions in business activities in the summer months in Europe
       and some other countries;

     - integration of foreign operations;

     - longer payment cycles;

     - greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection;

     - currency fluctuations; and

     - potentially adverse tax consequences.

     Net sales to customers outside the United States and Canada accounted for
$1,043.4 million, $326.7 million and $114.4 million or 32 percent, 23 percent,
and 40 percent of net sales for the years ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. We expect that sales to customers outside of North America will
continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. We continue to
expand our operations outside of the United States and to enter additional
international markets, both of which will require significant management
attention and financial resources.

     Since a significant portion of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S.
dollars, our products may also become less price competitive in countries in
which local currencies decline in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Lower sales
levels that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and some other
overseas markets may also materially and adversely affect our business.
Furthermore, the sales of many of our optical system provider customers depend
on international sales and consequently further exposes us to the risks
associated with such international sales.

     We have significant and increasing operations in the People's Republic of
China and those operations are subject to greater political, legal and economic
risks than those faced by our other international operations. In particular, the
political, legal and economic climate in China is extremely fluid and
unpredictable. Among other things, the legal system in China, both at the
national and regional levels, remains highly underdeveloped and subject to
change, with little or no prior notice, for political or other reasons.
Moreover, the enforceability of applicable existing Chinese laws and regulations
is uncertain. These concerns are exacerbated for foreign businesses, such as
ours, operating in China. Our business could be materially harmed by any
modifications to the political, legal or economic climate in China or the
inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations.

  IF WE HAVE INSUFFICIENT PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OR IF WE FAIL TO PROTECT THOSE WE
  HAVE, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED

  We May Not Obtain the Intellectual Property Rights We Require

     Others, including academic institutions and our competitors hold numerous
patents in the industries in which we operate. We may seek to acquire license
rights to these or other patents or other intellectual property to the extent
necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on
commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by
others could inhibit our development of new products for our markets. While in
the past licenses generally have been available to us where third-party
technology was necessary or useful for the development or production of their
products, in the future licenses to third-party technology may not be available
on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted,
includes payments by us of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or a combination
thereof. Such royalty or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on
our operating results. We are a licensee of a number of third-party technologies
and intellectual properties rights and are required to pay royalties to these
third-party licensors on some of our telecommunications products and laser
subsystems.

                                        20
<PAGE>   22

  Our Products May Be Subject to Claims That They Infringe the Intellectual
  Property Rights of Others

     The industry in which we operate experiences periodic claims of patent
infringement or other intellectual property rights. We have in the past and may
from time to time in the future receive notices from third parties claiming that
our products infringe upon third-party proprietary rights. Any litigation to
determine the validity of any third-party claims, regardless of the merit of
these claims, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts
of our technical and management personnel, whether or not we are successful in
such litigation. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, we could be
required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or
to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We
may not be successful in such development or such licenses may not be available
on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Without such a license, we could be
enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products. We are
currently subject to various claims regarding third party intellectual property
rights. These claims are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our
business.

  Our Intellectual Property Rights May Not Be Adequately Protected

     Our future depends in part upon our intellectual property, including trade
secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We currently hold
numerous U.S. patents on products or processes and corresponding foreign patents
and have applications for some patents currently pending. The steps taken by us
to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation
or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products.
Other companies may be investigating or developing other technologies that are
similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any
application pending or filed by us and, if patents do issue, the claims allowed
may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar
products. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented. Further, the rights under our patents may not provide a
competitive advantage to us. In addition, the laws of some territories in which
our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia,
Europe or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property
rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

  IF WE FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR EXPOSURE TO WORLDWIDE FINANCIAL MARKETS,
  OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD SUFFER

     We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. We
utilize derivative financial instruments to mitigate these risks. We do not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The
primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at
the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To
achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are floating
rate and municipal bonds, auction instruments and money market instruments
denominated in U.S. dollars. We mitigate currency risks of investments
denominated in foreign currencies with forward currency contracts. If we
designate such contracts as hedges and they are determined to be effective,
depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of derivatives
will be offset against the change in fair value of assets, liabilities or firm
commitments through earnings (fair value hedges) or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings (cash flow
hedges). The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value will be
immediately recognized in earnings. A substantial portion of our sales, expense
and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do
enter into these transactions in other currencies, primarily Canadian and
European currencies. To protect against reductions in value and the volatility
of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, we enter into
foreign currency forward contracts. The contracts reduce, but do not always
entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Actual results on our financial position may differ materially.

  IF WE FAIL TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL CAPITAL AT THE TIMES, IN THE AMOUNTS AND UPON
  THE TERMS REQUIRED, OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER

     We have devoted substantial resources for new facilities and equipment to
the production of our products. Currently we are incurring substantial costs
associated with restructuring our business and operations under
                                        21
<PAGE>   23

our Global Realignment Program. Although we believe existing cash balances, cash
flow from operations, available lines of credit, and proceeds from the
realization of investments in other businesses will be sufficient to meet our
capital requirements at least for the next 12 months, we may be required to seek
additional equity or debt financing to compete effectively in these markets. We
cannot precisely determine the timing and amount of such capital requirements
and will depend on several factors, including our acquisitions and the demand
for our products and products under development. Such additional financing may
not be available when needed, or, if available, may not be on terms satisfactory
to us.

  OUR CURRENTLY OUTSTANDING PREFERRED STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO ISSUE ADDITIONAL
  PREFERRED STOCK COULD HARM THE RIGHTS OF OUR COMMON STOCKHOLDERS

     Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 799,999 shares of
undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions granted to or imposed upon
any wholly unissued shares of undesignated preferred stock and to fix the number
of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without
the consent of our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with
voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders
of common stock.

     The issuance of preferred stock under some circumstances could have the
effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Each
outstanding share of our common stock includes one-eighth of a right. Each right
entitles the registered holder, subject to the terms of the rights agreement, to
purchase from us one unit, equal to one one-thousandth of a share of series B
preferred stock, at a purchase price of $3,600 per unit, subject to adjustment,
for each share of common stock held by the holder. The rights are attached to
all certificates representing outstanding shares of our common stock, and no
separate rights certificates have been distributed. The purchase price is
payable in cash or by certified or bank check or money order payable to our
order. The description and terms of the rights are set forth in a rights
agreement between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as rights
agent, dated as of June 22, 1998, as amended from time to time.

     Some provisions contained in the rights plan, and in the equivalent rights
plan that our subsidiary, JDS Uniphase Canada Ltd., has adopted with respect to
our exchangeable shares, may have the effect of discouraging a third party from
making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change in
control. For example, such provisions may deter tender offers for shares of
common stock or exchangeable shares which offers may be attractive to the
stockholders, or deter purchases of large blocks of common stock or exchangeable
shares, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium
for their shares of common stock or exchangeable shares over the then-prevailing
market prices.

  SOME ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN OUR CHARTER AND UNDER DELAWARE LAWS
  COULD HINDER A TAKEOVER ATTEMPT

     We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware
corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a
specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially
all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the
removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender
offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in
the short term, to the interests of the stockholders. In addition, such
provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in
the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and
bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitations of liability and
indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors
into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our
stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of
stockholders. These provisions also may have the effect of deterring hostile
takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of us.

                                        22
<PAGE>   24

  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. A forward-looking
statement may contain words such as "plans," "hopes," "believes," "estimates,"
"will continue to be," "will be," "continue to," "expect to," "anticipate that,"
"to be" or "can impact." These forward-looking statements include statements
relating to our expectations as to:

     - the future prospects for and growth of our Company and our industry,
       including, without limitation, (a) the extent and duration of the current
       economic downturn, (b) the timing and extent of any recovery from such
       downturn, (c) the viability, development and growth of new fiber optic
       telecommunications markets, including the metro and fiber to the curb
       markets, and (d) the benefits and opportunities for us and others in our
       industry provided by such new markets;

     - the implementation of our Global Realignment Program, the timing and
       level of benefits we expect to receive as a result of the Program, and
       the expected cost to complete the Program, including, without limitation,
       (a) the level of the expected workforce reductions, (b) the benefits we
       expect to receive from the elimination and consolidation of research and
       development programs and manufacturing facilities, and (c) the benefits
       we expect to receive from integrating our sales force and restructuring
       our customer service programs;

     - the capabilities of, and customer demand for, our products, the breadth
       and scope of our product line, our ability to supply 100% of our
       customers' component, module and subsystem needs and our ability to
       capitalize on opportunities for module and subsystem level products;

     - the demand for products providing greater integration and functionality,
       and any system cost reductions resulting from the integration of
       components into single box modules and subsystems;

     - our customers' desire to (a) reduce the number of their outside vendors,
       (b) reduce the level of their vertical integration, and (c) focus on
       overall system design and architecture;

     - our strategy for the future, our ability to implement such strategy
       successfully at an acceptable cost and any benefits expected to be
       received through the implementation of such strategy, including our
       strategies to (a) maintain close customer relationships, (b) maintain our
       technology leadership and product reliability, (c) offer a comprehensive
       portfolio of fiber optic components and modules, (d) develop modules and
       subsystems, (e) structure our manufacturing capabilities for maximum
       efficiency and quality, and (f) seek complementary mergers and
       acquisitions;

     - modifications being made to our sales and marketing and customer support
       and service programs, and our ability to complete such modifications at
       an acceptable cost and realize benefits therefrom;

     - our global Oracle implementation, the costs thereof and any benefits
       expected to be realized therefrom;

     - our research and development programs, including, without limitation, the
       costs thereof, the anticipated completion of our R&D programs, new
       product introductions and projected revenue from new and developing
       products and technologies;

     - our employee relations;

     - our allowance for deferred tax assets and the realization thereof;

     - our expected future expenditures for capital equipment purchases and
       leasehold improvements;

     - the sufficiency of existing cash balances and investments, together with
       cash flow from operations and available lines of credit to meet our
       liquidity and capital spending requirements for future periods; and

     - the cost to complete our acquired in-process research and development
       programs and the expected amortization of such costs.

     Management cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from
those projected in such forward-looking statements. These
                                        23
<PAGE>   25

risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the risks that (1) the
current economic downturn may be more severe and long-lasting than we can
anticipate, and, notwithstanding our projects, beliefs and expectations for our
business, may cause our business and financial condition to suffer, (2) due to
the current economic slowdown, in general, and setbacks in our customers'
businesses, in particular, our ability to predict our financial performance, in
particular, and our future success, in general, for future periods is far more
difficult than in previous periods; (3) our ongoing integration and
restructuring efforts, including, among other things, the Global Realignment
Program, may not be successful in achieving their expected benefits, may be
insufficient to align our operations with customer demand and the changes
affecting our industry, or may be more costly or extensive than currently
anticipated (4) increasing pricing pressure, as the result of the economic
downturn and competitive factors, may harm our revenue and profit margins; (5)
our research and development programs may be insufficient or too costly or may
not produce new products, with performance, quality, quantity and price levels
satisfactory to our customers; and (6) our ongoing efforts to reduce product
costs to our customers, through, among other things, automation, improved
manufacturing processes and product rationalization may be unsuccessful.
Further, our future business, financial condition and results of operations
could differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking
statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties including the risks set
forth above. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility
for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We are
under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results or
to changes in our expectations.

